This is Jockel podcast number 329 with echo Charles and me, Jockel willing good evening echo good evening
At 1800 the bull and Lieutenant Colonel Sidner walked on the stage
The room got dead silent when the bull began to talk
Bull was a man of few words
The briefing theater was a short walk from our barracks
Inside it had simple rows of wood seating like two by ten boards on short metal poles no seat backs
It would seat around a hundred
There was an elevated stage with a screen
We'd watch to movie there just a couple days prior
Bull reveals a large map and
Says quote
We are going to rescue 70 American prisoners of war maybe more from a camp called Sonté
The target is 23 miles west of Hanoi
This is something our American prisoners of war have a right to expect from their fellow soldiers
We are all part of the same military family. We want these men to know that they are not abandoned by their military family
No man should feel that way
That's why we are going in there after them
You are to let nothing nothing interfere with the operation
Our mission is to rescue prisoners not to take prisoners
If there's been a leak
We'll know it by the time the second or third chopper sets down
If we're walking into a trap if it turns out that they know we're coming
Don't even dream about walking out of North Vietnam
Unless you've got wings on your feet
We'll be a hundred miles from Louss
It's the wrong part of the world for retrograde maneuver
If it happens, I want to keep this force together
We'll back up to the Sonté Kong River if we have to and by God
They're welcome to come across that damn open ground
We'll make them pay for every foot across that Sonté for about four seconds
You could have heard a pin drop
Then like a cannon shot
Everyone bursts out shouting, woooping, hollering, slapping each other on the back
Raring like Broncos yelling, let's go get them
Both tries to bring us back to Earth by explaining in no uncertain terms
That he estimates each man has a 50-50 chance of returning alive from this mission
He states that this is strictly a volunteer mission
If any man has a reason that he should not go on this mission, he should decide now
Not a single man backed out
The whole meeting, including Lieutenant Colonel Sidner's portion lasted no longer than ten minutes
And that right there is an excerpt from a book called
Who will go into the Sonté POW camp written by Terry Buckler and is about one of the most famous
Special Operations missions of all time the attempted POW rescue on the Sonté prison camp in Vietnam
And the author Terry Buckler a special forces soldier green beret
Was on that raid
He was actually the youngest man on that mission
And we have the honor of having him here with us tonight to share some of his lessons learned
From this incredible mission and from his life
Terry
Thank you for joining us
All right pleasure
It's an honor to have you here. This is something that I've heard about for many many years
And anyone that's in the special operations community knows about this raid and the impact that it had
Not just on the POWs
But also in in the history and the continued evolution of special operations as a whole so it's
Pretty pretty humbling to be sitting here talking to you that that you were actually all in that raid
How do you end up coming on this podcast? Is your daughter my daughter she's acting like my agent
And told me about you and I started looking up some of your podcast that you've done
And
And then started looking at your file and my goodness you're better than Trump
So I don't know about all that
That she's the one who got the ball rolling for it. Well, I'm definitely glad she she reached out and this just an incredible story
The had an awesome time reading this book
And we'll go over some of this book today. I'll start off by saying obviously I can't read the whole book
Um get the book yourself if you want to hear the entire story, but I want to hit some wave tops of it
Because it's just an incredible story and
Well, usually like to start off in the beginning kind of where you came from and
To introduce those topics. I'll go to the book
Okay, so it says here. I was born in a two bedroom house on a small 72 acre farm in central Missouri in 1950
We were six miles from Clark six from Renek and six from Higbee
Our mail came through Clark. I went to school at Renek and our phone came through Higbee
Clark happens to be the birth birthplace of famous World War II general Omar Bradley
Our house had been built in 1870
We didn't have indoor plumbing until 1962 when I was 12
So that's a
That's a little different that people grow up now, huh? Just a little bit
What tell me a little bit more about you know growing up in that in those conditions?
Well, you know we were by ourselves our neighbors were in the same boat that we were pretty much
We had one neighbor down the road that actually had indoor plumbing and as always kind of nice
There are three kids and one of them was same ages maybe we grew up together and
You know, sometimes we'd spend night to that each other's house and there's always nice to go to his house because you get a bath and hot water
And so what you guys did you boil water to go and take a bath at your house sometimes
Sometimes we boil water other times we set a tub out in the sun in the summer
Okay, and then we'd bring it in the house and all the stories when I was growing up in my parents
I'm going to town and I was taking a bath and
We had a stove and the stove as we head back in those days didn't have the metal
Charatney was just there was the the heat and there was a fire and I lost my balance and
my butt fell back into the
That against the stove and need us to say yeah, and a nice little burnout
Couldn't go to school for about a week because couldn't wearing clothes and it was embarrassing to me to go to school
And when people start saying why why were you out
So that's it just when those things you know hurt my butt
That's what you call burning in scientists
Yeah, you say in here dad was a hardworking man, but he also enjoyed having fun
When he returned from the war in 1946 he worked as a coal miner alongside his dad and rock springs Wyoming
After he was injured in a mine cave in he decided he was not interested in miners career and move back to Missouri
Where he'd been raised
In 1947 he purchased the 72 egg acres. I came to know as our farm
He attended classes on agriculture at the technical college under the GI bill
And you say this let me pause to tell you about my father's service in the army world war two was when he served
He never talked about the war until one Saturday in July 1997 after he had his stroke and was recovering in the
University of Missouri hospital
That and I started talking about what he did in the army from basic training until he was released from active duty
Dad spent 36 months in the South Pacific
We talked about what it was like to get shot at and how it felt to shoot another person
That was a very laid back person it was hard to imagine him shooting someone we compared the food the army
Fettas and the types of weapons we had we both carried a call 45 our long rifles were very different
We talked about fear while in combat
Now you say your dad didn't really talk about that until 1997
Right, so did you did you hear did you know he was in World War II growing up?
Yeah, I knew he had been in World War II, but we never talked about it
when I I've volunteered for the draft and
When I came home and told my parents when I had done you know my mom
Of course she broke into tears and
Dad can't understand the situation and
Remember he took me to the bus station
God of Kansas City for the induction or take my physical and that's that was really the first time we talked about
What it was like and
More and he told me don't volunteer for anything
I really listen to
Famous last words. Yes
Uh, you say when I turn 15 I spent most of my summers working for a neighbor who'd formed about
500 acres my brothers had worked for him until they graduated then I took their place
Your class president
Yeah, you you had a really small school grown up 19 you're graduating class. Yes. You were class president. Yes
You played the only sport you had was basketball correct which you were not genetically engineered to play
I wasn't the tallest guy on the team. I didn't stretch the imagination
But you played the duplai varsity
Well, we didn't have anything but varsity. So you were just playing you had one team you played on you didn't play
So and then the only got 19 in your class you can't be real picking
Uh
You say after graduating from high school I moved to Columbia to work the summer for my uncle Rodney who owned a tree service since 1950
Um
In the fall of 1968 I moved to Louisville Kentucky to attend trade school for electronics
I had a job working construction in the mornings and went to school in the afternoon
I did this until January of 1969 when I ran out of money
There's the end of February 1969 when a couple of my high school buddies and I were riding around the big town of
Mobiley and decided to stop that the draft stop into the draft for to see where we were on the draft list
We'd all been in technical school and back then when you lost your draft deferment from college
It seemed like you jumped up on the draft list
Lady at the draft board told me that it would probably be April before I'd be drafted
I asked her when the next group was scheduled to go and she told us it would be March
I asked her to add me to the list so that was it. I just volunteered for the US army
correct
So
This is
1969 I mean the Vietnamist's war is clearly going on and you're seeing this in the news every day
You know I've had quite a few people on the podcast that when they were
joining the military
It was
66 they the Vietnam wasn't a guarantee like it must have been for you you must know 100% you were going to be an off
I was exactly right. I mean in those days
They needed troops and
You know I cost me another year of my I volunteered for a two year
But to get into special forces I had to
Extend another year for training
So I became a three-year commitment
Were there like hippies
Were you were in Moberley or was there was there not?
That's so much in Moberley but it fought brag
Where I ended up
After a basic in a IT in jump school
Yeah, we had our trained fondies and our
Those
People that like to protest
But it was it seemed like for you and your group of friends
Just patriotic this is what's going on. Yep
Exactly
It's a real area. I mean you know hippies were kind of a thought of as weird hours
Still are my mind
You know
Just the way it goes
haha
Summer to love I guess was a little bit different for you and Moberley yeah, this is a little bit
You say on March 17th
1969 the day to report to the Moberley draft office my mom got me up early and dad and
Fixed dad and me a big breakfast before she went to work there in the kitchen my mom gave me a big hug and we kissed
She told me she loved me. She told me to be safe
That was a tough day for mom as she walked out of the kitchen door to go to work
I could she see she was crying
Dad had taken the morning off to drive me to Moberley
So I could catch the Missouri transit bus to Kansas City from my physical and my swearing in it was bright sunny morning driving to Moberley
Dad had a nice talk to me about what to expect at the army basic training
He advised me to take it all with a grain of salt
Dad had served in the Pacific theater during World War II and it's seen his share of combat in the Philippines
Standing at the bus stop we hugged and he gave me some more good advice keep your nose clean your head down and
Don't volunteer for anything
Dad wiped back his tears as he walked back to his car
Scott had a little bit of a different meaning when the war's going on in Vietnam
And your dad had actually fought himself in Southeast Asia. He knows exactly what you're getting into exactly
And he gave you some good advice which we're gonna find out you did not listen to
All right
Uh boot camp here we were issued our new nice green uniforms and all the good stuff that comes with it underwear socks boots and blankets are new friends
The drill sergeants marched us or at least we called it marching over to get our first army haircut
It took about one minute, but it was free and you know what they say you get what you pay for
I'd only been in the army a few days when our company was brought into one of our training buildings
There was this big bad looking rainbow guy who was looking for volunteers for the green berets
I didn't know a lot about the green berets, but I did know they were one of the most elite fighting units in the army
This guy looked as though he could have kicked any 10 of us at once
I thought if I'm going to war I want to go with the best so I raised my hand when he asked if anyone wanted to volunteer for the green berets
Special forces
I knew this would cost me another year of service
But I figured another year is worth the price to pay to be among the army's best
I guess those a poor listener when it came to my dad's advice about volunteer
So how much did you know about special forces?
Not a whole lot other than the green beret, you know
the songs
Very sadler yeah and then out and
you know
I knew that
Special forces was special and
But I really I knew no one at that time that was in special forces, but I I had done a little reading on them when I was
Thinking about joining the military before I actually volunteer
But I was felt like if I was going to go on one go with the best
How many guys from your boot camp
Company do you think volunteered me
Yeah, it was kind of you know
I thought well you know that's why it's special maybe
What percentage of your boot camp company was draft these would you say?
Probably 90 percent wow yeah we had it most of us are all drafties
We had a few guys that were in reserve or national guard, but the rest of us are just drafties
And you know we were there because Uncle Sam needed us there
And so we took on the role of a soldier
What was the kind of shock value of boot camp for you having grown up on a farm you've been working hard your whole life
I mean when you you're getting you might have been easy for you
I had one of my guys worked on a dairy farm up in Minnesota and for him being in the military was easy it was a vacation
I agree
You know it wasn't I remember that you know we had a
My DI who was a veteran Vietnam found out that I was going to jump school and
There was another Palmer 17 year old Palmer and that guy got me and more trouble he was going to jump school
And so anytime
He messed up I had to pay for it
So I started messing up so he had to pay for it and we had a run in battle and
Trotsargent dynam was our drill sergeant and
He just I remember we doing the pukele sticks and he called our number and we go out and
And then he'd call somebody else's number need coming in but he wouldn't leave us he left us out there
You know and then when I got tired he'd call for a power's number and I got to a point where the guy is
felt sorry for him and of course
That him said you guys either start smackin him or we will start smackin you and so you know
They didn't have a really good choice and those little helmets we were we're worth a
Pizza pie and nothing but I remember coming out of the man my head was ringing crazy
You know that was the way it was and
Why was Palmer going to airborne school he just wanted to go to the 80s second oh
Yeah, he didn't want to go to special forces and he wanted to go to the 80s second air board
And but that he was he was a stalkie young kid and
17 years old smart new everything
He thought
And we're all blessed with how did they 17
I have to thank and keep your mouse shut
How long was bootcamp do you remember eight weeks yeah
And did you get any infantry was it just very basic kind of indoctrination military pretty basic you know and then my AIT
I was a combat engineer on the
My AIT which is that four to eleven or Leonard wood as well
So I spent basic and Leonard went and I spent my AIT at Leonard wood
So that's just an advanced train extended period of time you're there now
How did you end up getting an MOS of combat engineer did that get assigned to you?
Yeah, that was that was the case you didn't make it through special forces training exactly
Yeah, you went through your basic whatever the army, you know, whatever your military occupation is gonna be
And then once you got into special forces then you decided you had a choice of you know medic
You know we had the best medics and
weapons
Communications and
Intelligence and all that was a new request trained on all that
Yeah, same thing they have now same they have the same system now right
Um, took your first airplane ride after AIT you say I experienced my first airplane ride
It took me from Fort Leonard wood to Fort Benning, Georgia
Jump school as much as I expected a lot of running and push-ups and when you screwed up and morning inspections
I went through jump school in August
Fast forward a little bit here you said I had the good fortune going through jump school with some navy seals from team two if I recall correctly
When they learned that I was headed for special forces training they decided they would adopt me into their ranks
The water troughs we were we had were about a foot deep and 18 inches wide the seals stopped
Up one of the troughs and filled it with water then about six of them grabbed me and dunked me in the water until I thought I was going to drown
From then on they deemed me an honorary seal
I guess you might say I had my first taste of water boat boarding
They were actually great bunch of guys one day we were headed back to the barracks after a day training one of the seals was made to run around the platoon
while we did the airborne shuffle
Well the seals have a very high degree of a spree decor if one of them was dropped for push-ups
They all did push-ups so if one seal had to run around our platoon they all would
Think about that the seals were running circles around us as we soldiers did the airborne shuffle
Now to say this pissed off the cadre as an understatement the next thing I knew we were running what felt like a sprint as the seals ran around the platoon
By the time we made it back to the barracks we were all exhausted the cadre then had the seals doing push-ups for the next ten or 15 minutes
I developed a real appreciation for the level of camaraderie the seals have
I
Went to airborne school they don't seals don't go to airborne school anymore and for a better journey
They go through the Navy has their own little program now, but so I I was I don't know when they stopped it
It was quite a few years after me, but it was definitely that situation
We would go down there you know we were like you said earlier we were so we were young
So we thought we knew everything but we were definitely a good shape because we were just coming out of seal training and airborne
school especially this is like 1990
1991 I think it's when I was going through airborne school so at that time there's all kinds of people from
The army going through airborne and the air force it wasn't
It wasn't though it wasn't high standards of physical training
Not very high so you know we come out of basic seal training where we're like animals
We're just having fun make it do anything to hurt us
But had some good really good memories of the black cats down there. They were awesome. They were they were very cool
Yeah, it's it's too bad they don't join us up for that anymore. It was kind of fun even the all tell you
I had a kid asking me about it the other day and
Man that that's weird that's where I really learned about the herd up and wait like never before
I mean you get you know we'd meet it to a clock in the morning to start getting your parachute on
At four o'clock in the morning you're getting your first inspection at six o'clock in the morning
You're taking a bus out to the plane at eight o'clock in the morning. You're getting on the plane at 10 o'clock in the morning
The plane takes off and it noon you jump
I've been doing this for 10 hours. This is a 30 second evolution
Good times
uh
you finish
Airborne school and
You roll into September
1969 special forces training you say one certain night in September
1969 74 top notch soldiers out of a hundred screen out of hundreds screen
Jumped into the dz at camp a call near Fort Bragg with all their equipment and one change of fatigue
That's all we would have for the next few weeks. We are about four miles from what would be
Or what would become our base camp?
It was about 10 p.m. and the welcome committee was ready for us
Now you could tell these guys really look forward to our arrival
They cadre quickly assembled and started marching us to camp up on this dirt road with our rucksacks and our weapons
So this is your start of special forces training you're going your jumping into school
All right correct
Okay, my call and you just have what you have on you an extra change of camis and
And your gear regular gear yep
Deep what kind of brief did you get before this
Did you get a brief call and we all knew that's the year that's where the washout started you know and so so once you start
Once you start this this section of special forces training and people start washing out are they quitting or they failing?
What's going on combination some guys you know on the just on the night in that first night
We lost probably 15 guys
Just they went for them. I mean they couldn't take the
harassment and the guy yeah, I mean
Those the cadre out there were
You know they
They knew how to get under your skin and and in a very short time
I remember seeing some guys get so bad, you know, they take a swing element
It was like oh you don't want to do that you know
Wrong wrong wrong and
Next thing you know you know that person in around anymore
But that's
That's the way when we're reading them out you know and getting people there that really
Wanted to be in special forces and knew that there was going to be some
Ups and downs to the training part of it and and then all through
I think we were out there like eight weeks and
You know you learned
You know all the basics of you know patroling things like that they went into a little more advanced, you know how to set up ambushes and then you know a different
types of
Medical deals and going on or raid, you know
Well or a mission and you had your right to your mission reports and things like that
See it was a kind of an overall view of everything that you would need in an 18 and
You know at this point we were
Medix we were weapons we were just
Green green braze and that you know we're just hoping to get through the next level to where they could then select the MOS we wanted and go
That's when the training really started for special forces this was we're gonna weed you out
We're gonna make sure that this is what you want because if you don't can handle this you're not gonna handle anything else
Then we don't want you
I forgot to mention that when you were in boot camp
You scored a perfect 500 on the on the physical fitness test. So you were just a good athlete for sure
How I was I was in good shape back then and a fast runner you mentioned that specifically you were a fast runner
And then you know it are you doing a lot of patroling like long long marches during special force training because I think it's different now
Yeah, I think I want to say it
They weren't long marches, but you know you you'd go out and camp out overnight
You know and kind of make do with which had you know everybody had their a little tense
But you know a lot times we didn't even use them we're just unroll a sleeping bag and sleep out on the star
So to speak and
That was part of it as well. How much were you eating?
Well you had back then we had the old sea rations, you know, so they would bring in
The meals and I mean we made those were our meals for all three meals. You know we had
pound cake
And ham and mothers
Was a favorite and then
Beans and weanies, you know, we're saying put it right and bring it out in a big you know 50 gallon or 25 gallon
For the water and they put the heaters in them so that each food and then you need your P38
Open the can and
That's and you need here and guys trying to barter with you know
So ham and mothers fuckers were the first you know nobody wanted them and you need your some guy
I'll trade this for you
Pallent cake
Pallent cake for rotten too
But you know that that was before sea rations or
Lurps came out for us
So
yeah, it's always
But you know I went through basic seal training and there you get to eat and you get to eat
Actually a lot most of the time you're getting three meals a day and usually one or two of them are in a
Chow Hall where it's basically all you can eat and I always feel
You know the Rangers that get one MRE day for whatever that is you know 85 days and
You know they those guys always lose 20 yeah 15 20 25 pounds I gained
I gained 11 pounds
There was your seal train well yeah, I went from 174 to 185 and that's working out however long you're working out
You know doing a ton of physical activity, but I was just eating a ton and you could get like get done at night
I would be ordering pizza at
At 10 o'clock or 11 o'clock at night. I don't order pizza dominoes would deliver
We would eat pizza just about well we eat up pizza on a lot of nights so we're getting a lot of calories
But I always found that the
The army has a little bit more stringent about what they're gonna let you eat their special forces schools
I remember in the first time I ate it I air force
Oh yeah, my god next level. Oh, yeah, I mean I remember they say ask you
How you watch her eggs?
I'm thinking you're asking
You know normally it's scrambled, you know and I told them how like my eggs. It's okay
I'm gonna like this play
Yeah, the air force definitely puts a priority on yeah on comfort. I will say on comfort they do
I've always heard that the air force like when they design a base
The first thing they build is the barracks then they build the recreation
Then they build the gymnasium then they jibil the pool then they build the golf course and now they're just about any
Out of money and they say to the government well we still need an air you know, he's still leaving an air strap
You know in some hangers
They go well we don't have any choice but the builders
That's what I've always heard. I don't know if that's true
But I was worried I did really
Was there anything that was really hard for you going through this a national special forces selection? No
I you know I kind of breeze through it. I remember the first time I was ever exhausted where I couldn't do pushups was
the night we landed and
We kept up another guy lol and I kept up with a cadry all the way into the base camp
And then when we got there you know of course the ask your question are you tired?
And we knew it was a trick question. We said no you can say drop new pushups
I literally I could not do another pushup. You know I mean I thought oh no this is it they're kind of flushed me
But you know when the other guys all got in you know they said get up and get in back and fall in
some of the we got a blessing there
So uh
You say this in the book um
I always tried to add humor to anything that I do
One early morning the company was in formation waiting for the cadry to join us on that day
I was the student company commander while we were waiting I shouted out a command to that anyone who that can't
Tamped out tamp tap dance must be a sissy
Well the entire company started tap dancing in place
All of a sudden they all stopped
I had my back to the cadry building and it was at that time that I realized I was the only one still tap dancing
I stopped and slowly turned around and stood there and there stood the cadry
They did have a sense of humor and got a chuckle out of it, but they told me to drop and start doing pushups
And here you have one of your first life lessons in this book life lesson one add humor
It really helps when things are getting tough sometimes it's not easy to find it within you
But even the POWs somehow found a way to pass some slivers of humor through the cracks and the prison walls
The soul needs it
Make sure you contribute some for the benefit of the people around you
You know, I mean it's interesting that we're sitting here laughing about the stories anyways because you got to have fun doing this stuff
You win it's miserable exactly
You get done with selection and you say I was sent to my
Special forces MOS and special forces there were five MOS options weapons engineer communication in telemedical
And you ended up with communications MOS now is that cuz you
Is that right?
I thought you did I
Did communications on the raid
Okay, but my MOS was
12-proval of as an engineer, okay weapon or demolitions so they kept you and you were an engineer anyways you'd been through
AIT right that was as an engineer, so they put you as an engineer. Okay, hmm
I did something's right
And would you learn about so so talk a little bit about engineers what are you doing in that?
specialty
Where you learn down to bird build bridges, you know across rivers and things like that and then of course part of that was demolition
You know how to use debt core and how to build your own bombs for you know soap dishes and dust initiators things like that
That were used and then you know how to how to basically use a debt cord to knock down trees and stuff and
It was
Remove a class after maybe we lost about eight or nine guys in a accident. I don't know a demo range
You know what happened we had a a
The guy that was doing connecting
We did it what's called a ring main and in the ring main the last one that connects
Is then connected to the hut wire on the battery and we were using electric blasting caps
And they forgot to disconnect the other side and
We lost about a heater nine guys
On one the end of the day and they were all kneeling over there
Working on it. Yeah, it was it it was a real shame, but you know somebody forgot and
Awesome good man
Man, yep
That's awful. Yeah, those uh
You got a pay attention when you work with demolitions
You just have to yeah
One one little air like that and put it into your career. That's for sure
And I bet the guy that was actually near the blasting machine
He wasn't by a charge right so that lives yeah, he lived
And I live without the rest of his life
Yeah
Um
Fast forward a little bit
You say here after I completed special forces MOS training in March
1970 we were all then assigned to a group at this time fifth group was responsible for Vietnam and as warriors
Everyone wanted to be assigned a fifth group including myself
However, there were two groups at four brags sixth group and seventh group
I was assigned a seventh group like any good soldier you do as you're a told and make the best of it
I was proud to be a green beret
That summer brought me to the notting hala. I said that right man. Holy notting hally
National forest from which I was picked to be part of bull Simon's mysterious
Mission so on September 2nd 1970 as
Member of the advanced party we loaded on the C1 23's southbound so bill Simon's
This guy is a legend
World War II he fought in in New Guinea he was a ranger
He conducted a raid
That was a that was a POW rescue they rescued in the Philippines
Over 500 POWs
Many of whom had participated in the baton death march
Mm-hmm
Then he'd gotten out for a couple years and then came back in use in special forces
He was in sag I mean he this guy was a legendary guy and
How did that happen that you got picked for this for this mission? How did you hear about the mission? How did you get picked?
Well, I was up at Netahaley and I was training
I was working with a bunch of master sergeants and been
E5 and we were teaching mountain climbing in rope tie and all officers and some of the guys in seventh group
And we needed some supplies so
Colonel told me we went to town pick up supplies and which netahaley's about
Probably 250 300 miles from Fort Brank so I went back down in a brang and
And a couple of my buddies said when I got down and they said hey, did you see where bullseyements is looking for
Volunteers and of course bullseyements. I mean just I mean that was enough to
Excite you and you didn't want to be there so
I said well I'm gonna go down see what he's talking about because they said if you and he was gonna be down
It's a we call it a little White House. They're for brang
I got down there. It was packed. I mean they were probably 500 plus
Special forces guys there and bull came out on the stage and he always had a little cigar in his mouth
He never smoked it. I don't know. He just too none of you
But he yeah, I had never seen the guy so that was kind of my first
Introduction to Colonel send up and he looks like a legend
He's his physical appearance. He looks like a lift. He is a legend
I mean he's yeah, there's no doubt about that and
So when he came on stage you know he said I was looking for
Some volunteers or a moderately hazardous mission and
I always wondered what he called hazardous
Compared to what we were
He didn't ready to go do but he said there's no TDY
So you know that eliminated some guys
You know everybody was temporary money
duty money and he said if you're interested get back here
We'll start the interview process at that 13 hundred hours
so I went back and
Put my name on the list and the next I
came back to
I mean they had two certain majors doing a lot of the interviewing two commands hard majors and
We were in an in line at the seventh group
Facility billets and
He was about probably about five thirty I guess and I was sitting there and nobody's called me and nobody's called me and everybody else pretty much
God and
Alex these two
Hard majors and they're walking out the door and I'm thinking
Well, they didn't interview me and so I were in after him and holiday them
I said you know hey you guys didn't interview me
And they said what's your name and I said buckler and they said
Well, and he had a clipboard on him look at he says
I don't have your two on one file
That's the military and army that's your
File tells you everything about who you are and what you've done in your record and I said they said
Well, I'm on interview and they said well you get your two on one file be back here first thing in the morning morning or
You so okay, so
Buddy man at that time was one of my roommates or a bunch of us lived off base
You know we had seven of us in
In the sixth and seven of us in the seventh group so we were only time we were together with payday and holidays
and so we kind of
The neighborhood I think was glad to see us move, but
You know, he was a deputy sheriff who lived down the road from us and he was always stopping by and see guys
Can you just hold it down just a little bit?
Yeah, so anyway
I went in for the interview you know and they asked me if I could weld and I said
I grew up on farm and our neighbor Sam welded everything we ever broke because I looked at that
I thought I can do that so I said yeah, I'm a welder and you so you felt like you could weld because you watched your buddy
Well, okay, I like it. I like your attitude. Let's get back to you. I didn't have a welder so I went have to
Prove myself yeah
And then I went and know if I did scuba and I
Had met that point nine scuba so I said no, I don't know scuba and then just ask me some general questions
You know what how much combat have you been and I'm thinking they got my 201 file. I have no combat experience
And so I said no, I know then so I said okay, well, thanks
I thought well at least they let me interview so you know, thank you and I walked out the door
Back up to not a daily been and a couple of days later
A kernel from our called me and there's office up at the not a daily there and he says a
Pack your bag
That's a whoa, okay
He says you made bull Simon's list and I said really and he said yep, so I said okay and
Dad, I went you know, I'm very excited not even knowing what we're gonna do just the fact that
We made it. Did you have any idea why they selected you to this day?
I know the thing I could figure out is they needed some
In special forces aside from your crack welding skills
I think what they needed was some grunts and in special forces the knee five is the laws rang
So they I was on the advanced party and we went down and set up the compound and
We when they swept the building we put the consentino wire around and put the fuel phone now and then I pulled guard duty
On the bet we had to guard that building 24 by seven and I thought it was a little unusual because
When we pulled guard duty it bragged yet you got a
16 in one round maybe and
And this when we had him 16 and full round and my orders if that goes south shoot and that
I thought there's some series on this mission that they're not telling everybody about but you know
We did what we were told to do and
That's I pulled guard duty and when I went and pulled guard duty
I was either sleeping or training because I had to train with the other guys during when I wasn't pulled in guard duty
You say this so you fly down there and where's the location fly to and in an eggland
Air Force Base so
You say now bull wasn't the only legendary officer attached to the saute raid
Captain dick meadows would lead blue boy a
Salt group which would land directly inside the POW camp walls and listed in
1946 a pair trooper in the Korean War in the early 60s
Meadows served ascent with the British special air service in Vietnam meadows captured video footage proving North Vietnam
Army was infiltrating south Vietnam and impressed general was Westmoreland so much that in 1967
He received a battlefield commission directly to captain
He was the commanding officer of Ranger school when bull's simons recruited him for the sauntay raid
Lieutenant Colonel but Sidner was
Selected by bull's simons to serve as the ground forces commander
Whereas bull's simons role would be the on-scene eyes and ears of the joint contingency task group in constant
Contact with general manner
Lieutenant Colonel Sidner had the reputation of a gentleman and a consummate professional one day
Brigadier general blackburn from the Pentagon Brigadier general manner
Bull's simons and Captain dick meadows
Showed up as a group and requested access to the operation center. I check their IDs and called in for someone to come out
Nascort them in
Lieutenant Colonel Sidner comes out the gate. Can you imagine how I felt here? I am a 20-year-old buck sergeant standing in the midst of some of the most
Notable special operations forces officers ever. I remember
They treated me as one of them making small talk with me after a while Lieutenant Colonel Sidner took them inside
This was one of the great things about special forces the officers and enlisted men tree each other with respect
I believe this is because you have to depend on one another when you operate in small teams like special forces
So they were super strict about who's coming into this building?
Yeah, I mean it was you didn't get in the building. I don't care how many times you've been in that building
When you went back in I had to check your ID and or whoever the guard was
Calling and we had a feel phone set up and calling somebody would come out and verify that they were who they were and let them in
That's called them into the building and at where you go to getting to go into the building?
No, no, you even know what you're guarding
We used to laugh about that because we would say what I think I didn't know you know
So private to see about we kept thinking women
But we knew that could have me was none of us in red escorted in a meal
So yeah, they were very strict. I mean on that it was
They didn't want anybody in that building and there was only a limited amount of people that could get in there
And I'd say probably maybe 25 to 30 at the most that were ever allowed in the building
Well, you're standing in this guard duty and you're doing the best of your ability which leads us to another life lesson you have in here
Life lesson two your life is significant so be excellent in everything you do no matter how
In significant you think your job is it could turn out to be a life-changing position
One of the reasons Captain Dan eventually selected me to be paired with him was that during all the time
I spent pulling guard duty and training. I never complained but always did what was asked to me
I credit my dad for instilling this attitude in my brothers and me. He always told us if you're gonna do anything
Do your best
correct
That's an important one
You go on to say here as the member as a member of the advanced party another one of our tasks was to build this large mock-up of buildings
Using target canvas as the walls with doors with cutouts for windows we began constructing it on Thursday September 10th and it took us
Several days to complete we didn't know why we were having to build it it wasn't until we did our first walk through during our initial training
That I realized how it would be used
Even then we had no idea it was a
Dimensionally perfect replica of all the buildings and walls of the POW camp in saante North Vietnam
Two by four is whatever jam two by four is near the dirt and then build little buildings
Full size walk-throughs
It looked like toilet paper on
wrapped on a
Two before so it reminded me you know, but and one of the things we finally clarified in and the book was
Everybody said we used to take it down every night
Well, you know, it took us a week to build it and then we weren't gonna take that down every night
Because they I mean we trained
Most of our training was at night
And so there's no way we could take it down and put it back up
But and one of the air force guys that actually guarded it
I said that confirmed that force in the book and we were trying to find out who can we talk to them
And the air force guys said no, I said it was even up after you guys left
But they did fly over it and take pictures
Right so they wanted to confirm that the
Whatever the Russians couldn't see it from satellites or from flyovers and aircraft or whatever exactly
Yep, but but somebody hadn't started the rumor that it was so secret that you would take it down
Yeah, all every day. Yeah, that's exactly right
Fast forward a little bit talking about some of the training you do you were doing on Wednesday
September 9th about a week after we arrived as the advance part of the other 78 or so green berets arrived
That we started our training the first 30 days of training were intense each day started with PT followed by running the meadows mile
Dick Meadows love to run and he led many many of our runs now I like to run but not like Captain Meadows
If you were not in shape you soon would be I think this was one of the reasons I was selected as one of the Raiders
I was by no means the biggest man in fact. I was the second shortest the shortest Raider was also the oldest NCO
Master Sergeant Galen Papi Kittelsen
Papi was no stranger to combat
Papi and I had several things in common we were both short and stocky built
We both grown up on a farm in the Midwest in World War II
Papi was the youngest man in the raid on on the POW camp in the Philippines
I was the youngest man on this raid
25 years junior to Papi
That's pretty awesome so he's he's what 45 then because you're 20 right he's 45 years old
Hmm and you're working with all these legends with all this combat experience and you know
What's interesting to me was none of those guys ever let on like they were greater than anybody else
I mean they were right there with us and if you had a question they answered for you and I mean they wanted to
and I remember when we when we told the
Packer bag we were leaving and we didn't have a at that time we didn't have a minister anything
so Papi was a Christian and he said I'm gonna have a prayer service over in the building
If you guys want to anybody must come come and what I walked in there I was amazed at how many of these guys
I didn't think it's Pil God were there on their knees praying and
And Papi was a lead miss and I'm made an impression on me that know that
You're not in control of anything you just think you are and the man upstairs is the one in charge
So
Getting into some of this training you say our our training began with us walking through our positions
Over and over again in daylight during the first month
There were several changes to how we performed our mission each person had specific tasks to perform
Not only do we have to know our own role, but we had to know the role of the man to our left and right and where they would be when the
Firing started Captain Dan and I were a two-man team
As the RTO for red blind security group my job as Captain Dan put it I want you at arms length for me or I will be the one to shoot you
And if you knew Captain Dan he would have so you can bet I stayed damn close to him the primary job of our two-man team was to make our way to the
Communications building as fast as we could to neutralize the people inside before they could radio for reinforcements
We had two buildings to clear before we could get to the communication building
The technique we use for clearing a building was different from what our troops used today
As a two-man team we would first toss a concussion grenade into the building
Why use a concussion grenade and not a frag grenade the answer is very simple
The buildings were we were clearing of bad guys were not made of concrete
But of a thin material that a piece of flood frag would fly through
Captain Dan would stand to one side of the doorway and I would position myself on these other side across from him
When the concussion grenade exploded it would generally blow the door open or in some cases
Completely off as soon as the grenade exploded
Captain Dan would dive to the floor at the threshold firing in the room from the top left to the bottom right at the same time
I would step over him
Firing top right to bottom left by this we created an X covering all the space in the room
Captain Dan would remain on the floor and I would back out and shine my flashlight into the room
So Captain Dan could confirm that we had neutralized everyone
I would then put in a new clip depending on if I'd fired any trace around
Captain Dan taught me that in combat you don't have to you don't have time to count how many bullets you fired
The technique is to first load five trace around and then finish filling the magazine when you're in a firefight
And you see trace or smoking out the end of your barrel you know you need to change magazines
That's a wild way to clear rules
And I got to make a note here so when you say concussion grenade so a lot of times like we
What we use now we use something all the time called a a crash grenade or a flash grenade or a flashbang
And those create a boom and a flash
But a concussion grenade is big it's a different thing it's not the same as it's not the same as a flashbang at all
It's a big in fact there they're a lot bigger than a frag grenade right they're they're really big and they create a massive explosion
Now there's no fragmentation as you mentioned
But it is a massive explosion and when you when that happens inside of a closed room
You know even if the doors are the walls aren't that strong
It's gonna create an issue and what did what did you think the walls were gonna be made of there in the camp?
Well, we we anticipated being made just kind of like a patch, you know, maybe in Adobe
The compound itself was kind of a brick wall
But you know remember the French were in there before and we were there and they had built the compound
But the buildings on the outside were in the doors were really on the far as the solid doors, you know, they were
Pretty flimsy so you so you toss a concussion grenade into the room
Then
Captain Dan dives to the floor in the doorway and
Stunloads of magas, you know in full auto from the top left to the bottom right
While you while he's doing that you straddle him in the doorway and fire a full mag on auto going top right to bottom left
Yep, this is
This is serious business. It was our own technique
When we were trying to figure out how to best do it. This is Dan's idea
Well, he said oh, he's a floor. You straddle me and you know and then when you're
I'll fire this way you fire that away and we'll create a dex
And hopefully that would put everybody down and they could see our mission was not to take P.O. devias
And we had to go through that same area coming back and
We had both Simon said I don't want anything holding us up
So you neutralize everybody on the way through and that was our orders and that's what we did and you know
the
Our way of clearing a building is quite different in the way they cleared a day
We didn't worry about collateral damage, you know, you were the bad guy and that's what it was gonna be
So we made sure that
We neutralized and moved on to the next building
Now, were you worried about where you're
What did you guys plan in such a way that your bullets
That were going through this building that there was no friendlies on the other side
Did you guys have the whole thing kind of mapped out?
Yeah, we would that friendly fire. Yeah, in fact even when the choppers came in it took out the guard towers
We made sure that we were shooting into one of the
cells of the P.O. devias in fact in order to do that
One of the P.J. said, you know, he could fire and not hit the cell so what they did they put a
a sheet up
And tested and the guy did exactly what he said he did. Yeah, I mean it took out the guard tower
But didn't have anything near close to the cells
So when they when we flew in in live mode
That's what they did to take out a couple of the towers and then there was one tower that we had
The blue boy had to take out because it was in a situation when we didn't
Confire into it and not think we might hit a P.O. devias
So that's how we did things and it was
It worked you know the only thing that was bad about it is the hearing that it
Like you said those concussion grenades are brutal and we didn't
I had a headset and I had my headset where one was on and one was off
But you take your friend and your
Hope that you could hear something after I came back and there's probably a good couple of months
I was just in my hearing today is gone
From and I
Much of is from the
Concussion grenades because I mean the idea the concussion is below your eyes not ears out
Yeah, that's what it's supposed to do is blow people clear drums out
Yeah, it does
It's interesting because when I first got in the seal teams we we didn't have a very big budget and and some of the training that we would do
For our kill houses that we would set up they were just made a plywood
So it was actually harder in some ways because you had to be aware of
Where everyone else was in the house or in the building because if you shot around into a target
Or you missed the target and we would have built bullet traps sometimes we'd have bullet traps
But a lot of times we would be just be suit and paper silhouette and so the bullet would go through the whole house
Yeah, and so we had to organize these things that you were all
Kind of staying online even as you move through a clearance of a building in order to be safe and and then
Eventually we ended up getting really nice ballistic walls and then you get a lot
It's a lot easier to do and luckily where were you're fighting in
I rack most of the time you know it was it was concrete walls or whatever
So you could you could actually shoot in rooms and you they wouldn't generally go through the walls
But it takes a different level of planning when you have to account for
Your rounds just continuing down range even pass through you know the building that you're in
I mean the collateral damage on something like that could be pretty high if
Yeah, I mean when I we got a
Terry buck and Lieutenant Dan spray in 30 round bags if that if you don't if you don't have a good plan
That's gonna you're gonna shoot your own people
So you guys had to think through a lot of these things in a lot of detail and the good thing is where you were training was the same thing
Wasn't like you were training a ballistic house you were shooting through
You know just just whatever paper or whatever
From all this training you put together life lesson three
You say in your work always be training and improving during the first month of our training
There were several changes made to how we approached our positions
I learned a very important lesson in vest timing time and training it pays off
Just like a football team trains for the big game
We were training for our big game the major difference our lives depended on how well we performed
Training sometimes gets boring but when the bullets start flying in both directions
You're sure glad that you know what is expected of you and your team members
And you know
That that probably
Is one of the more
Important messages that I think
Could come out of this book because
I think the training that we did saved our lives because we had
I mean we had 177 rehearsals and
Part of those were alternate you know like if red wine went down
It was red wine alternate red wine greenly went down was alternate greenly
Well, we were setting down
That night in San Te and I'm listening on my radio and I'm here
Alternate playing green
And you think the plucker factor didn't jump up there because you just lost one third
We'll get to it, but that at that moment you lost one third of your assault force
But our training and the training that we did paid off in spades because we we knew how to react
And it wasn't like oh now what do we do we know what to do we train for it and
The planners of this Sunday
Have done such an and matching job of thinking of all the different
scenarios the only one they didn't think about it was the P on that he's not being there
That was the one that we just I mean Florida everybody
No, but
Yeah, and even I thought through that and we'll get to the actual rate itself, but as much planning went into it
And as much they tried to think of all the different scenarios that could take place
Something happened that they didn't plan for which is
Once it green leaf
Came back to the target site so you had to do a link up which is one of the hardest things to do in a combat zone is linking up with friendly forces
In fact, I think it's the hardest thing to do
The hardest thing to do in combat is link up with friendly forces
And they basically like they they got all just like we did anything in front of you was open game
And you know we were and for a few minutes there it got pretty testy and
You know I have to compliment some of the guys that were on green leaf, you know
They they knew they were coming back in on a hot LZ
But they also knew that you know
There's friendly guys out front too and they had to restrain themselves
It was a pretty good
Yeah
And they were coming from a firefight themselves
So they got hot weapons there there amped up they hear you guys shooting 400 yards away and how they're landing the helicopters and and so it's a
Testimate to the training not just to the rehearsal of hey, this is exactly what's gonna happen and here's the contingency plan
But here's something that we didn't expect to happen
But we still have the good standard operating procedures the presence of mine to make to make the right decisions and that's a testin
It's all this training. Oh, it was I mean, and that's not that's when I speak to military groups today
I said I know we all hate to train but I can tell you I am living proof that what they we trained on probably saved a bunch of lives
You know and
Awesome life lesson
Going back to the book you said is one of the six guys assigned to guard the tactical operations
And I started to see that I might miss out on some of the key training if I wanted to have a chance to get in selected for one of the assault force teams
I had to train when I was not pulling guard duty
Security was so tight that we didn't know who we would be rescuing or in what part of the world the mission would take place
There was a lot of speculation that it might be an attempt to free prisoners in Cuba
Based on the three hour flying time of the mission
I had been training and pulling guard duty for about a month when I got my chance to speak up
I was checking Colonel Bill's whole Simon's
For access to the talk building while we were waiting for an escort to take the bull in
He asked how things were going for me
I knew that he was only going to pick some of us for the actual mission
So I said sir
I didn't volunteer to come here and pull guard duty if I wanted to pull guard duty
I would have stayed at Fort Bragg
Now bull always had a two inch cigar that he chewed on he looked me right in the eyes and said young man hanging there
Things are going to change pretty soon after that he went to the building. I thought to myself
What the hell did I just do first I chewed out to him sergeant majors back at Fort Bragg trying to get on this mission
Now I just told a Colonel and not just any Colonel but bull's Simon's that I was tired of pulling guard duty
I
Just bitched to the bull about pulling guard duty. I
Thought well, I'll probably end up pulling guard duty for the rest of my time in the army
However, what he said was true within the next week things did change
The first cut was made on Friday, September 18th
They selected 51 men and an additional 10 men were identified as backup that could be used in any of the different elements
I was selected to be a part of the red wine security group
I would be the RTO for Captain Dan Turner no more guard duty for me
The three groups were each placed in their own areas in the barracks building to help the team concept
You know what why do you think you got selected?
I
I said an email to Dan Turner
Dan's passed away, but before he passed away. I sent him an email asking him that and
He he said basically I didn't bitch about whatever I was asked to do and he said he always had a
Great attitude that you know, I can do that and whether I could do it or not
I took the attitude that I could get it done and
He just felt like I I was older than the 20 year old that
He was accustomed to so and I think that's
Tributed to just growing up in a farm and you know
you do things that
You know I started driving a tractor I was six years old
You know as you know was just I had to keep it between the bales a hey
When we were picking up a and that was about it, you know, but that's
You do things on farm back in those days that you wouldn't have thought about doing but
That was I was confident that I could do the right job for him and
Hopefully I did
This also leads to another life lesson life lesson number four
You say have patience and aggressiveness and
Contentment guarding the talk we are not allowed to know the why as I saw my opportunity slipping away
I was aggressive hungry to be in the middle of the action
That's okay. It's not a fault to be aggressive. It's a virtue
If you can choose in your heart and in your mind to be at peace and to be thankful trusting God with the outcome
So you got to know we got to be patient at the same time. You know you know sometimes you got to approach the bull
Yeah
And he yeah
I could tell he wasn't offended by it, you know, he just
He asked the question I thought here's my opportunity to tell him, you know, if he's saying
I'm just gotta go with it. I mean, that's what you're looking for when you're in charge of a team
You want someone that wants to go that wants to step up and that's he's fresh any gave him for sure
You say in our training at four bragg we used blanks, but for our training here at auxiliary field three
We used live ammunition. I remember one day
We were throwing frag grenades and one of the guys got hit with some shrapnel. There's only a minor cut, but it drove home the point that we needed to stay sharp
By the end of the first month, we had practiced until every person knew not only his own position
But also the job of every person around him and the alternate plans
Then we started practicing at night
This is a serious rehearsal's going on
um
You go on to say when we first started training using the helicopters the plan called for Captain Dan to be the first man off and for me to be the second
Now I'd watched enough warm movies to know that the first man off any vehicle get killed
For a couple of weeks we trained this way. I thought oh shit
We aren't even gonna make it off the chopper. I can now admit that every time I stepped off the chopper
The thought went through my mind of getting zapped before my foot even hit the ground
Then after a few rehearsals the plan changed to wear Captain Dan and I would the last two off the chopper
All of a sudden I thought damn now that I'm the last guy off the bad guys will have their sights locked on
I will get nailed for sure
eventually I had to admit that if the good Lord wants me he doesn't care from the first the last or the middle
My maker is going to bring me home when it's my time
That's a some good young pair of the way
Either way you're getting shot
You say life less and five and this is an important one be prepared for death
Don't worry about it. You can't completely control it
Make sure that the day you meet your maker is not the first time you've been introduced
If you are prepared at all times you're free to live life fearless and that was your attitude
Eventually you sat to say you know what weathering first weathering last if it's my time it's my time
I can only control so much and you know that point was really driven home last week when my wife passed away that
You know
She she was prepared to meet her maker. I know that and
She's in a better place today because of that so it holds true in my mind
Well, I mean it's it's a testament when you can say that
You know that your wife who lived an amazing life and and she passed away and you know we were talking before
We we started that you said well, we're gonna come out here anyways. We're gonna record this thing because she would want me to carry on with the mission
Yeah, that's it's an important part of the book, you know, and
I think that I think that happens with young guys going into combat
You have to get to a point where you say mail. You know what this could
I could die tonight. Yeah, and but you could do that while I'm gonna cross the road could do that walk in across the road and
You can only control the things you control you can train hard
You can prepare you can study the plan you can mitigate the risk
But there's some risk you're not gonna be able to mitigate right and if you concentrate on those things
It's gonna drive you crazy. I'm gonna say it takes away from everything else. Yeah
Exactly
You talk more about some of the training that you did again. You got to buy the book to get all all the details
You talk about some of the Friday night fights which was they would bring like a band and and
Boozing women and they had like a bar set up and so you do that on Friday nights
And again, it's crazy to think that you guys still didn't know where you were going
You guys had no idea where you're going. You thought you might be going to Cuba
I think there was somewhere else you thought you might be going to replace hijacked on tarmacs around the
Camorole that we thought we might be going into
Rescue you know people on hijacked planes, so you have no idea what you're doing
No, which and everybody you know it was we didn't know we just knew we were gonna do some type of rescue and
We trained
Fort and did you know that it was real?
So
So no okay because I know sometimes we would get spun up in such a way where they'd be like
Hey, we got a mission and we think actually this the very first deployment I went on
We got recalled we had little beepers now
I was in Guam and we had beepers and they said hey if this thing shows up nine one one
You know you got 20 minutes to get to base because some's going on
So we get there and I'm I'm
I guess I'm 19 or 20 at this point
Maybe I'm 20 or 21 but anyways, I'm young and very dumb and I also think that I'm you know
I think I'm going to be at mom. You know, I think I'm I think I'm gonna be like the combination of James Bond and Rambo and everybody else
So we show up in Guam on deployment my Pseal Patoon
It's 1993 anyways, but I think there's just you know this is it
We're gonna war hmm so we go out we get all we go out the range we get all of our weapons dialed in and I'm just
Totally ready and then
I'm doing something and I get that the 911 on my page and I hope there you go here it is it's on it's go time
And we run you know rushing to back to base sitting our opportunity in space and my leading petty officer comes in and says
Hey, they went and inspected the range we didn't do a good job
We got to go clean up our brass
So
Not exactly what I anticipate
But yeah, so you guys are doing this Friday night oh my point was that
We would sometimes get recalled to do something and they wouldn't tell us it was training
Until like we were ready to launch or and we some guys would know some guys
Bego this is just training but of course I'd be like no way man. It's real. You know
But you guys so did some of you think maybe this is just a big training operation and the beginning we kind into it
But with bull being in charge and all the you know we saw a lot of
Brass around us, you know this is the first mission ever to be in the direct control the joint chiefs of staff
We didn't know that at the time either. I mean we we knew that there was guys in worshiping coming down
Ever once a while and they would go into the building and we'd think why are they there?
You know, but you know nobody ever explained to us that you know they were doing the same thing up in worshiping DC
But
It was
We just kind of kept the dark and fed on bullshit and that's that's
We started
We were just told do our job. Yeah, that's what we were doing
Speaking of Friday night fights you say there's one interesting incident that sticks in my mind
Our barracks were two stories world were two style with one big open bay for all of us
I was on the first floor and our beds were lined up on each side of the room
It was about one thirty a.m. when I was awakened by crashing noises just four bumps down from mine
It was three nco's wrestling a master sergeant to the floor in our barracks apparently the master sergeant after quite a few drinks
Had a disagreement with bulls Simon's at the bar
Concerning how the team should perform their mission and was frustrated that the troops were being kept in the dark
The discussion got heated and the nco came back to his barracks to get his weapon to first sway the good
Colonel to use his ideas the guys in the barracks held the nco until he eventually cooled down
The next morning the bull and the nco were on the PT field the bull had the nco
Heels locked at attention while he chewed his butt up one side and down the other the bull convinced him that he should not
Disagree with him again at least not with a threat of bodily harm
But the bull did not let this effect his relationship with the nco or anybody else the bull always said
He didn't want a bunch of boy scouts. We always look forward to Friday night fights
And this is classic the following entry was made into the official
Talk record of events. I believe this is the very discussion with that master sergeant
And so this is a quote from the actual record it says 27 October
Colonel Simon's discussed grievances with operational personnel and discuss progress and quote
Well
Yeah, that was
That was an interesting
Evening and more and then the next day and we were we were all looking out the window thinking boy
When you like be a little mouse here and with that conversation about but I mean it was over and
He but on the mission with us and
He
But the bull said you know, he didn't want boy scouts. Yeah, he didn't have any so yeah, I know as a leader
You want to have guys that are gonna push back if they disagree with you because you might have a bad idea
Now you don't want them to go to their barracks and try and grab a weapon
But you do want to hear there
What they're gonna say and what why they think that? I know
Fast forward a little bit
Monday November 16th
We were told the packard gear that we were leaving
Eglina Air Force Base for a new undisclosed location the next day
We didn't have a chaplain to our group in our group. We did have
Papy papy announced that he would be holding a prayer service in the barracks
Papy was respected by all the raiders and officers from the bull
Down the chain of command and World War II papy had been an alamo scout just like bull Simon's
They had both been on the raid that freed five hundred POWs
There's a
2005 major motion picture called the great raid
Papy was pretty famous in the army particular in special forces
When I walked into the barracks where Papy was holding the prayer service it really struck me how many of these seasoned
Soldiers were there to pray on their knees to our father and heaven
I can tell you there were no atheists in our group
The next morning you guys get on board us see 141
First place you land is California next place you land is Alaska and you still don't know where you're going
No, they still have not told you where you're going
The next stop would be our new home for a few days. It was a long flight
We didn't get much sleep, but at least we touched down at our final destination. It was November 18th at 3 a.m.
When we stopped
When we stepped off the C140 directly into a large hanger they loaded us into what what I thought were bread trucks
The air in this dark land had a sweet tropical smell warm and humid the old warriors thought we were in southeast Asia
But we're not certain
We never knew it until many years later, but this was the CIA compound at the tackling
Is it saying that right?
Tackly royal tie air force base when our trucks arrived at some barracks most of us went straight to bed
Our trip had taken 28 hours
So even know where you are
Some of the old timers are thinking hey, kind of smells like southeast Asia. That's about all I got
We were awakened at 6 a.m. had breakfast and went about our morning as normal
We were told to be at the mess hall to 11 a.m. a little earlier than normal lunch during lunch
We were told to go to our barracks immediately after we finished eating and get some sleep
To ensure we got some sleep lieutenant-cruel Joe Kataldo our doctor who would be going on the mission and into the compound with us
Required everyone of us to take a sleeping pill as we exited the mess hall as we walked toward the barracks the old timers
Explain that they had never had to do that before it was pretty clear that this would be the night
I spent the rest of the afternoon walking around the compound and talking to the other raiders about what they thought was going on
The time passed very slowly that afternoon by 5 p.m. everyone was awakened from our bunks and told to get to the mess hall for dinner
then meet in the theater in 1800
By 1730 we started filling the theater you could tell
Everyone was getting pumped for what we were about to learn
And this is where you get the the speech that I opened this whole thing up with where you finally find out
Where you're where you're actually going these are got no idea and that the way you write about that that reaction that everybody had
Mm-hmm. Would you say I mean I would imagine that all these other possible missions that you could be going on
There would be none more
Favorable
Then going to actually rescue other American and service members in Vietnam. I mean that's
That's the that's the pinnacle. Yeah, that's what we thought to
I mean we were ready to had they been there there been home that night
All 70 or more
So you get that speech
You say at 2100 the bread trucks took us to a hanger that we used as our staging area
We checked our weapons. I carried a cult m1911 a 45 caliber pistol my machine gun was a car 15 with 820 round magazines and
530 round magazines
I used the tips I'd learned from Captain Dan on how I should load my magazines. I strapped on two
Frag grenades and 10 concussion grenades
Captain Dan told me that if we ended up needing to use frags well, we were probably in some deep shit
So I hope that did not have to use them
We use the concussion grenades and clear in clearing the buildings my next task was to check the batteries on both my radios
I checked my handset and my headset on my prick 25
That's the way we were we were to communicate with Lieutenant Colonel Sidner's ground command team the headset
allowed me to listen to the radio traffic and still fire my weapon and toss grenades
each radar carried a survival radio a prick 90
When you turn on these radios they send out a warble tone that allows saw or search and rescue team to pull you out of a hot situation
Among the 56 radar radars we had 92 radios
So you're getting your gear ready
And you go through some you get it's pretty cool and here you know for people that are going to get the book which I'm sure is a lot
You go through like a gear list of absolutely everything that you're carrying every all the specialty gear that you had
Change saws the guys were carrying welder
That's a large welder which even though despite your incredible welding skills you didn't get aside
Decided to somebody else tiny
Probably about six to six three
He could I was pretty easy but nobody wanted me around tiny
Good shot. He those tanks get shot. It's gonna be a disaster
Time to go see 130 landed at you doing at 2300 ushered out you guys are ushered out to your age age 53 choppers
And here we go at 2317 with all the green berets aboard Apple to lift it off
Forming up with the other five helicopters and lime one and lime two the four engine c 130
Hercules tankers that would take us to the border of North Vietnam during our training we had only made the full three hour long flight twice
The idea I think was to keep us from trying to figure out what we might be going what I remember about that night was how hot it was and
And at the sky was very clear
On that long chopper flight from you don't to sauntay. I spent a lot of time in prayer
You can learn a little bit about yourself seeing what your mind latches onto when you know that in a few hours you might be meeting your maker
God has an important port. God has been important part of my life as long as I can remember my mother side of the family attended church
Pretty regularly compared to my dad's side the bucklers like to drink dance and party not to say they don't believe in God
They just like to celebrate a little bit more
After about an hour of flying most of the guys were lying back against the sides of the chopper some guys had their eyes closed
Either praying or sleeping. I thought to myself these men are true warriors many of the raiders were married some had kids my age or older
There was a lot of small talk. I figured each man was thinking there was not a lot of small talk
I figured each man was thinking of his family each one knew the risk he was taking
We were no different than other warriors before us our
Military is filled with men and women who are willing to risk their life to protect this great country
I sat back and had a nice little talk with the big man upstairs. I asked him protect to protect us tonight
It was the longest three hours. I had ever experienced I thought about my mom and dad and how they would feel if I didn't make it back
I wondered what they would think when they read the letter I had written to them before I left
I thought about what my dad told me before I left for the army don't volunteer for anything
So what did I do? I volunteered for airborne than special forces and now for this raid
I thought mom and dad would be heading to moose lodge this weekend for a Saturday outing
I thought about Doug my oldest brother who served in the Navy submarines for nine years
I thought about how my brothers and I fought and the crazy things we had done on the farm
I thought about the times I hunted squirrels with dad. I fought back to the first squirrel I killed
I'd shot him about nine times and when dad and I were scanning it he said we might get lead poisoning when we eat this one
I thought about my buddy Charlie caught him and the fun we had as kids I fought back to the times
Mike and I spent riding our horses into the woods around our farms. I guess I was trying to take my mind off the mission
Because I couldn't stop mentally rehearsing my duties for the mission over and over and over
I got up to stretch my legs and look out the window. I would could see the other choppers in the moonlight
It was like we were doing just another rehearsal so prepared we were
But this was the live run we are actually going in I sat back down and said another prayer for us and waited for us to arrive at Sonte
North Vietnam
It's a long flight that's a long flight to be sitting there thinking about this target that you're going into
Yep, it certainly was
Were you and there's so many details in this book that I'm not covering
Because I don't want to read the entire book but how well aware were you of the possibility of surface to air missiles?
Well, we knew they had brought several of our pilots down but we weren't
That wasn't on our mind you know we were grunts on the ground so that didn't you know
Sam's done fact us until we had one fire that has we realized just how damn
Closing God so you guys were blessed with a little bit of or at least you were of being a little bit naive
Yes, and and I know that we've we've lost a lot of our
naive
Attitude about helicopters because we've we've taken some some
horrific hits in helicopters and lost a ton of incredibly great people
But but for you guys you weren't really thinking about that too much and you knew we we knew we had air cover with the A1Es
And you know we had A1E flying over us all the time when we were on the compound
So the bridge we were supposed to blow it because of the alternate we didn't blow it but the A1E took out
The bridge force and so
We knew we had good cover there and then of course we weren't that aware of what was going on at the same time
From the Gulf of Tauk and you know there's a hundred sixty necraph coming in which
I mean that's
The largest array and Vietnam history did they brief you guys on any that no
We had no idea about it till we got back because they had basically set up a massive diversionary operation
Yes, on the other side of Hanoi right to to distract from what you guys were and I and I think it really worked if you
You know some of the after action reports that that came back
Said that you know some of the and the mixed in him could off the ground because they were confused as
Where they were coming from and you know we were dropping flares over Hanoi and while we were sneaking into backside
To San Tei so all their attention was coming from the Gulf of Tauk and and
There was a Sam site just south of us and any aircraft as well. I mean I think we had a total of 20 Sam's fire status at
night and
What up the first one the first and the only one I really remember
Was the one when we we had landed done our deal and we were coming out and
We got on the bird and we our count was off
You know, so we did another count
It was still off and then so we did a third count and this time Dan Turner counted himself
Which was kind of in the excitement I guess you know, but
Anyways, so we we got up we
We were setting the PJ between us and Dan and I were on both sides of the tail as we were leaving North Vietnam and
And the
Chopper is it turned and we were looking over the lights of Hanoi just like you'd be looking over the lights here in San Diego
I mean couldn't believe how big it was and then we were
Fly and we thought well we got it made you know we're back on the boat and we're head-nome in about that time
Our chopper just dropped and we thought oh we got hit or something and about that time big
Look like a light pole flying up our rear and it probably missed us by I would say no more than 200 meters
It was I mean it was close and
Of course our pilots we had the very best pilots the Air Force had those guys
That's where they they did a fantastic job of getting us in getting us out and
It was it was a bit that's where that's where I really got scared honestly because you know
I kind of had control of everything on the ground but when you're up there
That's pilots man. I have a lot of respect for those guys. They're sitting ducks and and you know they
And we lost one none of the choppers but one the
Jets
Was taken out by that night
But the pilots were recover the next morning, so
But just shows you how quick it can happen
As you're going in or you think and what are you thinking your chances are?
You know
my thoughts were
Okay, the good Lord is with me and with us and
We're gonna be all right, but I got to do my day and whatever it takes, you know
One of my biggest fears was what I freeze you know having never been in combat
You know, I mean I've heard of guys that've been in combat before freezing
Even guys that've been in for a long time
You know, but that was a concern of mine what I'd be able to but all the old timers kept coming up to him and said don't hesitate
Don't have a safety whatever you do it on hesitate was there anyone else that had no combat experience
So there was four of us had never been in combat before
hell and how many out of 56 four of us
Never been in combat so it was that I hope any experience and
They entered or told me in one time afterwards
He's just he's all more combat not saw in a year and
Is it really? Oh, yeah
so
So here we go
0 to 20 Saturday November 21st 1970
When we were just about to land I heard through the chatter in my headset the voice of Sergeant first class how
Came through he was the RTO for Lieutenant Colonel Sidner the ground force commander for the raid
Alternate planned green. I repeat alternate planned green do you copy?
This was only the first of the bad news I would hear tonight
I responded say again
Sergeant first class how alternate planned green alternate planned green over
I said back into my hand mic Roger alternate planned green over
I thought to myself holy crap this can't be real
I turned to Captain Dan and told him we were going to alternate planned green captain Dan gave me that oh shit look
And calmly told me to pass the announcement onto others in red wine
alternate planned green meant one thing to all of us on the red wine chopper
We knew that we had 22 fewer men there would be a lot less fire powers we hit the ground
Whether green leaf group had mechanical problems or had been shot down we knew the mission
Including the alternate plans with that with or without the 22 men of green leaf group
We were going to execute the mission and would now have to perform their role as well as ours
So what had happened here and again you go into these details in the book
But green leaf this one other chopper had landed in the wrong spot
There was a school yard that was
400 yards to the south and it looked kind of like the POW camp like a little school compound right and that's where they landed
The Colonel Colonel Bull Simon was with them yes
So you get this call that hey we're going we're still going there in the wrong spot
But we're still going you still need to execute the mission and this is where you have life less number six
Don't be indispensable
Always be training a backup person for your job and always be learning to be a backup for your teammates
This applies to any job in life the graveyards are full of indispensable men
But yeah, that's a sketchy situation
I don't think I won third the troops and as this is happening
I'm going back to the book at that moment the minigun and the door to our right fired off a few hundred rounds for those
You not familiar the minigun. It's a gun that fires 4,000 rounds of ammo permitted at his been
It is electronically driven rotary breach to feed the ammo belt at lightning speed
Now my heart was already pounding, but the sound of that minigun firing two feet for me really took me to a new level
I just my headset on the prick 25 on my back and feel for my ammo pound pouches
I check for frags in my concussion grenades
I place my finger on the safety and make sure I have the safety off and my car 15 is set on auto
I make sure to have the 30 round magazine well seated and I chamber around in training
I've done this a hundred times
But this is it
My first time in combat. This is no game. I'm not as scared as much as I am excited
This is the moment I have trained for the reason I joined the green berets
I don't I can't let Captain Dan down or the other raiders as the RTO for the red wine security group
My job is to stay close to Captain Dan
He's the commander of red wine and I am expected to protect his backside
The tailgate is lowered the choppers feathering to the ground
We are about to touch down on the enemies home land and there's no rescuing us
If there has been a security breach. I feel the chopper settle as it is done so many times in training
Red wine group is unloading exactly as we have practiced over 170 times
The major difference is that this time the bullets are flying in both directions
It is amazing how fast you can exit a chopper
Captain Dan and I start off the tail of the chapter the last two men off. I am literally one step to his right side as we run
Our boots have just started splashing the rice patties with a North Vietnamese army soldier fires at us from the very building
We were to clear a couple of bullets zip by us a natural reaction. I placed the green dot from my
Armolite single point site on the guards chest and fire three rounds
He immediately falls to the ground and that instant I don't hesitate what the season warriors taught me really paid off
Don't hesitate
I imagine most of the warriors
In your first time downrange wondering the back of your mind how you responded that moment what I freeze when I faced with the
Decision to kill or be killed I had only just stepped on to the enemies ground and I had my first kill
There'd be more to come as we cleared the buildings
Out of the gate
You know, I watch a lot of
Fighting and they always talk about you know
Who's got the fastest record knockout in a fight?
You might have the fastest kill on enemy territory that you step off for your immediately engaging your guy
That's kind of crazy to think about
You go on captain Dan thanks me as we charge towards our first building
I am following captain Dan with bullets blazing and men moving to their positions alternate playing green is proceeding
We hear our chopper apple to loudly lift off the rice patties to wait about a mile away until they're called back in to take us home with the POWs
We came to free and the back of our minds if these birds get battled damage it will be a long way back to friendly lines
No time to think about that
We move forward to clear our designated buildings nearest nearest to us
Master Sergeant Joe Lupiak and his red wine element two which includes him
Sergeant first class tyrone Adderley and Sergeant first class Billy Martin each of us knew this was going to be much more difficult than it was during training
These are buildings that green leaf group would have neutralized according to the original plan and they would have had
14 of their men on this task
Under alternate planned green
Five of our team were now going to have to do it
They also had more firepower
Sergeant first class Jake Jack Avanko was carrying an M60 by pod machine gun which we don't have on our team
What we did still have was the L on a surprise bull Simon's told us if there was security leak
We would know it by the time the second chopper landed
We turned out to be that second chopper and we are operating like a well-oiled machine
Captain Dan is redirecting our red wine group comprised of four elements and it is made and is making sure
We are getting the job done
As as a virgin to combat and as Captain Dan's RTO I stay close to him
You have to respect and trust the men with whom you go to battle. This is where the months of training play pay off
We know what we have to do next alternate plan green means that the bridge north of the POW camp will remain
Open to enemy reinforcements crossing it since we didn't have enough raiders to send someone to blow it
Over the radio is lieutenant Colonel Sidner directs the A1E
Skyrader pilots to light it up with rock eye missiles if anyone tries to cross at the A1s will open up with 20 millimeter cannon
Those fly boys are cocky but damn they're good at their job
What amazes me is that in all this chaos the only one of the only one green beret gets wounded
That is sergeant first class Joe Murray Joe is a member of master sergeant Herman Spencer's team
Whose job is it is to secure the area south of the south wall?
That's the wall closest to where the helicopter's drops dropped us off and we later pick us up
Master sergeant Spencer's carrying a 40 pound block of sea four explosives slung over his shoulder
It is to be used to blow the bridge
It turned out to be a good shield for him as we landed and spilled out of our helicopters
Spencer and Murray immediately rushed towards their objective the guard shack by the south wall
Spencer took a couple rounds from a guard with an AK 47 in the block of sea four he was carrying
Joe Murray would not be that lucky and that's something that surprises people is that
C4 is relatively stable
When it's when it's by itself
Right that's where you have blasting caps or detonation cord because those things will blow up and then they make the sea four blow up
But but C4 by itself is relatively stable
yeah
Back to the book when Spencer was dealing with that guard that delayed Spencer just such that Joe arrives at the guard shack alone
The building needs to be cleared immediately before the enemy troops inside can all emerge
So Joe decides to use a frag grenade instead of a concussion grenade as he is about to toss in the window
He feels his leg push forward with a burning sensation
Joe tosses the frag grenade in neutralizing the guard shack
He then turns to eliminate the threat Spencer now arriving fires his machine gun
First and eliminates three guards
Joe is the only army raider to receive a purple heart
That's crazy
And there's like is there just a massive amount of gun fire at this point?
Yeah, yeah, it's
Everybody's letting loose with everything and we got you know and you have one guy get hit in the leg
Yeah
Back to the leg
Going on for Captain Dan and me the objective is to get to the communication buildings as fast as possible to prevent that from calling for reinforcements
It's a good 50 meters ahead of us and it's an open area with no cover
We have two buildings to clear before we clear the communications building
We were told that we would not take any North Vietnamese army prisoners and neutralize everyone
We will be coming back through the same area and bulldoze it won't anyone preventing us from getting back to the choppers
To do this we have to ensure that there is no one alive to ambush us on our way back
Captain Dan and our getting closer to the communications building
We can see the main guard houses on fire and people are running away from us
Clearing the main guard house was the job of another red wine element and they apparently are succeeding
We still have two more buildings to clear the first one is empty the second one has a few North Vietnamese army soldiers
I toss a concussion grenade into the room and as soon as it explodes
Captain Dan drops the floor and I stand in the door straddling him we create a crossfire with me firing fully
Automatic from right to left and he from left to right
He yells clear and I back out and shine my flashlight so he can confirm we've neutralized everyone
Because there are a number of them we do a closer check that they are all neutralized
In the clearing of the buildings at Sante, Captain Dan and I are the only two man team depending on how close you are to the grenade when it explodes
It can bust your ear drums and pretty well mess you up and building 12 as I'm confirming everyone is dead
It's a grim task whatever you're thinking right now
It is far more grim than that a guard raises his weapon behind me
Captain Dan neutralizes him. There is no doubt with that decisive action
Captain Dan saved my life
So you're sitting you're going through the buildings are you just doing security rounds in these guys
And then one of them that you haven't gotten to yet
We just you know we just put a bullet nearby said
Mm-hmm, I'm making sure and while you're doing that one of those guys that you hadn't gotten to yet
Decides he's gonna take a shot at you and Captain Dan sees him and kills him. Yeah, I had my back toy
What he did
Dan fire scare me
I thought somebody was shooting you know, but it was it was Dan shooting all right, but
I'm shooting the guy that that was gonna take me out so I
Approaching 0228 lieutenant Colonel Sidner received notification that green leaf group is not out a commission
We can hear apple one landing and are told the hold fast until green leaf elements get to their original plan positions
With 22 men of green leaf team including bullseimants
We are back on track within one minute green leaf has secured the guard quarters per the plan and takes over their rules that the red wine team members
Have been handling for them
Again, that's a comp that seems real easy
But when you got all the shooting going on and now you got friendly's moving into positions where there's other friendlies and you got
Enemy shooting at you that this is a sketchy thing it was very intense
Right there and we were kind of away from it because we were we were going to the communication building and over here was
Where they were coming from of course, you know
Adon they was he had I am 79 grade launcher, so he was booping them right in the windows and
You know, oh Kentucky Wendy's work real well
In fact Tyrone is getting the bullseimants award for socom. Oh, I'll stay in the outstand now. So well deserved. Yeah, that's outstanding
You go on here at 0229 we had just reached the communication buildings when I heard on my head set
Negative items
I told Captain Dan he asked me are you sure?
I dooms was the code word for POWs
It didn't make any sense the next radio call I heard was at 0 230 begin extraction to choppers
We entered the communication buildings without tossing a grenade. It was empty
At this time we started to move back to the LZ for extraction
We still moved with these assumption that there could be more enemy soldiers lying in the bushes
While the helicopters were and route were returning to extract us
One of red wines rolls was to clear the planned LZ by cutting down certain light poles that task revealed one frustrating
Surprise we had brought a chainsaw to cut down certain wooden telephone poles
But sergeant first class Charles, Maston and sergeant first class Ronnie straight hand were to blow up a tall concrete light pole
The moment that Maston and Strahan finished placing the four one pound packets of c4 explosive
We're ready to blow and we're conforming confirming that they should activate the fuse apple one was arriving
They waited until apple one had landed offloaded green leaf and departed
Ensured of safety they detonated the c4 as the pole rose into the air a huge flash of light
Maston and Strahan could
See that this was not a light pole it had four large high tension power lines
Dancing sparks were everywhere as the four huge power lines hit the rice patties the very rice patties
And which our soldiers and POWs would be marching to load the returning chalpers
We were going to have to find a new location where are we going to have to find a new location for the LZ
Maston, Strahan and Captain Jim McClam as the marshalling area control officer immediately set about ensuring
They understood the location of all the wines and whether they were hot
After assessing the situation and ensuring there were no other potential hazards they began placing the bean bag lights in an area
suitably distant from the power lines
As everyone returned to the LZ waiting for the helicopters we had a few minutes to gather people and equipment to load on apple one and apple two
You just not go into your life lessons in here
Don't be a complainer the world is moving on and needs people to solve problems
A value at your situation make a decision and execute any new plan without complaining and feels or for yourself
Not gonna help
Not gonna help the situation. You gotta make things happen. Exactly
No POWs was not something we had spent time thinking about
I could hear chatter on my headset. I heard the RTO for bull say that bull was coming into the compound
Bull had to verify with his own eyes that there were no POWs
A 0 237 apple one landed facing east toward Hanoi and loaded red wine group in blue boy group
Captain band and I were the last ones to board the two of us sat in the tail of the chopper loading the door fully
Down and open with a mini gun mounted right between us manned by an air force PJ
as 0 240 we lifted off and turned west looking out of the tail
We had a front row seat with a bird's eye view of Hanoi. I will never forget that view
I couldn't believe how big Hanoi was and how close we were to it
It looked like any major city in America
We were only about 20 miles from the capital of North Vietnam
Never before had the Vietnam War Vietnamese army been violated like this
That's when it really hit me what we had just done
We were rising only a minute or two after lift off suddenly our chopper took a hard dive to the left
What looked like a telephone pole with a bright red fireball shot bias? I yelled over the captain Dan what the hell is that?
Before he could answer the gun or standing between us yelled that it was a surface to air missile a Sam
Now I was scared while it was on the ground, but now it was really scared
And this is what you were talking about before on the ground. I have a fighting chance
But being in a chopper at 600 feet you feel like a sitting duck
Thank God for some of the best pilots we could have these guys knew how to handle it
We were soon out from the threat into the dark jungle mountains and headed for you, Dorn
During the next three hours on the flight back to base I had plenty of time to replay what we had done that night
Like the rest of the raiders I was very disappointed that we came home with no POWs
I kept thinking what went wrong why when when had the POWs been moved
That flight returning to you doing seemed a lot longer than the flight to Sante
We've been so pumped up about our mission to find no POWs was the last thing that would have ever crossed our mind beyond the two wounds received
US Air Force tech sergeant Lee were right ankle was broken during one of the crash landings and
Surgeon first class Joe Maria America's only casualty
Our night that night was our morale
And that's something again you covered these details in the book, but one of the one of the
aircraft actually crash landed on purpose into the combat right
Blueway yeah, and the reason for that was the people making the planning
Initially they thought we'd drop in a C 130
But they didn't know if the guards had orders to shoot the field devias if there was an rescue attempt or
Exactly what so they they planned on having control of the guards
Within 60 seconds a minute. I gave us a minute to have
Complete control of the guards inside the compound and I'm taking out to two guard towers and the third one up by blueway and then control into guards and being in there
And that's what we did
I mean they did a they did a great job on there and it's just that there was no POWs in there and then
You know people say well, while were their guards and
You know we don't know if they were why they're regards, but they were still in the
towers when we
We I say we they red
Green our blue boy took care of them
So our job was outside
We were really
Teams red wine green leaf and blue boy all had specific
Task to accomplish and that's what we did we worked on our task to get that done and if everybody did their task
Like we had practiced and rehearsed so many times it would be a great success and it was the success from the standpoint
Doing the job of eliminating the threat and
Controlling the POW camp and the guards
We just didn't anticipate the POWs not being there
And that was the the heartbreaking part of it
You say this to say we were disappointed would be an understate understatement some of us talked about it
How maybe we should have gone into Hanoi we were thinking crazy thoughts like that that's how confident we were when we got some rest at you doing for a couple hours
We flew a C130
And we were briefed again in the auditorium what to say and more importantly what not to talk about we packed our
Duffel bag secured our equipment and had a few hours to relax the C141 that we boarded it was
One that had been prep for MetaVac ready to bring POWs home
Now its mission was just to bring us to Elgit at Eglon
All the after action reports were finalized to exal exal auxiliary field number three and we spent two days before heading home to North Carolina on C123
So that's it you do like a debrief you fill out your paperwork explaining what exactly you did
And then you wrap up you're you know at the training site we had spent all this time preparing for the mission
And then you say this landing at Pope Air Force Base North Carolina a couple days later was a very happy time
It is happy for the Raiders and for all the people awaiting us families friends and the army support personnel
There to process us back to our normal world at Fort Bragg in fact for me personally
That is the most memorable moment
It was not the training or the day or of the launch or the landing at Sonte for me
It was the landing at Pope Air Force Base. I will never forget what I witnessed that day
I was a single guy so a couple of my buddies came to pick me up
But standing there on the flight line when I looked around and at the men unloading from the airplane
I saw their wives and children's running out to meet them. It really hit me
The bull had warned us that we had a 50 50 chance of not coming home a 50 50 chance of this moment never happening
If there had been a security breach it was unlikely that we could have been rescued
These warriors had laid their lives on the line to rescue fellow warriors
Four days after the raid on Wednesday November 25th, 1970 President Nixon honored the Sonte Raiders by having
Raider representatives in a televised ceremony in the White House's east room
That had to be pretty
It's pretty cool pretty crazy. It's so is on the news and everyone now
He almost immediately knew what it happened right and the only reason for that was the fact that hand-o-ai had come on and said they had been bombed
And
What they had been
Not bombed but they had
Fliers dropped out over the city and
And that was the diversion process and so the United States had to come on and say no we didn't bomb them
We did a POW raid and these were aircraft that were dropping flares to
Offset the Sonte Raiders coming in on the backside
So it was kind of a political but you know
The justify what we had done and the fact that the attempt was made to free POWs
Which was went a long way and that arena back then
This is how how would you say this level of
Media attention compared to the bin Laden raid?
Hmm, I mean the thing about the bin Laden raid was we were the
The war wasn't intense as intense at that point as Vietnam was I mean Vietnam was right full-on
So it would have gotten a little bit
Less attention. I mean the bin Laden raid was
Compared about his about his big of a new story as there's ever been I think yeah, yeah, that's true and
You know the good thing if you look at the bin Laden raid compared to the Sonte Raid
They were they copied what the Sonte Raiders about and that's the
Good part about the Sonte Raiders the impact it's had over the years
On all the raids that have been done since then have been modeled after the Sonte Raid because
Not because the
Success it had I've getting in and getting out
But the way the the way they planned it and all the information that went into that and how they
How they planned it made an impact on the success of it. Yeah, I mean
I know I know you know Adam when we're graven he wrote
It was sort of like his feces when he was at the post graduate school about all the
Most important special operations missions in history right and he wrote about the Sonte Raid
And then he was also like one of the guys is he one of the
Senior guys conducting the planning for the bin Laden raid so yeah, there's a direct
Connection between the lessons learned and the and the protocol that you use to to get this done and yeah, no doubt about that. It's a
Pretty interesting to see the truth to see this thread in history and yeah, it is I mean and today the Sonte Raid is taught at all the military schools and
You know so come in fact
They're making a movie on this and
Is so come making the movie or is like Hollywood making the movie? It's a a group of people that are doing a doctor or men
Right, okay, but the seventh special forces is going to
My understanding is they're gonna participate in having the Sonte Raid as a training film for
Future because what they've done they've interviewed a lot of the people on the raid and they've interviewed
The Peel dubias and they've kind of combined it all together in fact
Next in May I'm going down to do the screening on it at socom and I'm going down to see the screening and make sure
We always told anybody that's gonna do this we want we want it to be authentic we don't want Hollywood
so
last year I went out to Phoenix and did a
Group the group is building this
Movie on it and they actually built the compound and they used they had one of us from each group
Redmigree and they from blue boy and then an navigation
John Gargas Colonel Gargas who was Air Force the navigator that took us in and
They made all of the
They wanted to know how we cleared a building
They wanted to know all that stuff and it's home the ball you know it's home the hand grenades
And all that stuff and they did a really good
You have done a really good job on it and they're they're shopping and I think to Netflix and everything right now
But they're very close to having it completed but they've really done a nice job of making it
Authentic as to what actually took place and how it happened
So they're a good training film definitely yeah, that'll be awesome to see
You see here
I remember being told to report to the repeat parade field in my dress greens
This is December 9th
1970 for an award ceremony. It was a nice sunny cool day when secretary defense Melvin layered personally presented the medals to the members of the sauntay raid
There I stood spit shine jump boots jump wings expert rifle badge and the seventh special forces group risen ribbon
Brigadier general Henry Emerson the commander of special forces at for brag thank the raiders for their courage and dedication
We had reflected well on the green berets
And then you all were awarded it was I think six distinguished service crosses
Five air force crosses were awarded there was a total of 85 silver stars which included all of the raiders right
And the following comments were made by secretary defense
Melvin layered he said this
We are here to honor the brave the brave and dedicated men we confer on them today awards that
Express their gratitude their countries gratitude and admiration the mission for which these men volunteered called for
Undaunted courage and deep compassion
They were asked to go deep into enemy territory to search for and if possible to rescue their comrades and arms
Who are prisoners of war
They performed their mission flawlessly from the outset the president the nation's top military leadership and I
gave total and unqualified support to this mission
I knew as these men did how grave were the risks they willingly undertook
I knew as these men did that there was a chance of disappointment and even of failure
But the reasonable chance to return to freedom Americans held captive made this mission well worth the risk
If a similar chance to save Americans were to arise tomorrow I would act
Just as I did in approving and supporting the effort at song day
Man that's not too often the secretary that shows up at your command to start handed out 85 silver stars
Yeah, you do
After that I'm going to the book you say they gave each of us 30 days of leave untarged against our balance
We got 30 days of free leave. That's nice. So I went home for a whole month of December
Back home in Missouri we talked about a little about the mission
But not too much. It's funny how some people don't understand the significance of a combat raid
I wasn't going to try and impress upon them most of my friends had not gone into the military
So I didn't have any significant conversations with them about the raid someone got married and we're busy with their own lives
My dad was a good listener for me. He expressed his pride and after a few beers at the east sign
Tavern on in moberly he even told me some of his friends
Even told some of his friends what I had done
But to tell you the truth after about four or five days
I was ready to head back to brag and my army buddies
And you got life less than eight here
It says veterans we all have a mission listen to your fellow veterans it is important for the veteran
But it's also important for the listener it is important for America good stories and bad
They need to be told please take my request to heart and talk with a veteran and
That's one thing that you have in this book
You've got a whole it's over 140 pages of this book is all the different perspective
We've just told you're perspective and it's very interesting to hear your perspective as the youngest guy on the raid
Somebody with no combat experience
But you have the perspective of a bunch of different people not just the raiders but the support people
The aircraft the pilots the crew you've got incredible amount of stories to be told that are told in this book
That every one of them gives a different angle of the story. It's and now that came about when I started writing my I started writing the book in 2012
My daughter went to Afghanistan at time and she was asking you know what all do you do and I thought
I'm an ent talking man. There's been several books on the raid
But none by anybody that was on the ground so
That's guy. What prompted me to do it so
But the
The thing that I got out of that was in the process. I realized that I wanted more than my opinion
So I we have an email chain that we go out on so I send an email out to all the P.O. Davies and the Raiders and the support guys
If you have
Something that you would like to put in the book, you know
Send it to me. I'll put it in unedited into the book and I got about 40 of them and
Some are one paragraph summer three or four five pages, you know, but it's their memorable moment on the raid
Or about the rate or whatever might be and you know, it just gives a whole different perspective, you know from a P.O. W. standpoint
to a guy flying at you know
Mid midcap overs and it really I think rounded out the book. Yeah, it's not gonna read it today
Get the book but the story about the guys the got hit with a
Frag from the surface to air missile and ended up punching out just here in that story with him talking about you know
They're just having a conversation like what about to what about to eject from an aircraft which by the way is
A life and death thing this yeah when you when you eject from an aircraft there's I don't know what the chances that you're gonna die
But there's definitely a strong chance that you're
You know ejecting through the canopy going 400 miles an hour or whatever it is
I was dead. Lowery. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's a decent chance you're gonna die just from that and then you're gonna land in wherever
Vietnom louse the ocean you don't know what the hell's gonna happen
And these guys are talking about it like they think you up there
We're gonna have to punch out. Yeah, okay. Well, let let me know when you're ready
They're doing it like this yeah, I'm freaking calm cool and collected
Really a great guy to
Get the meeting man and then and then of course they end up having to get picked up
Yeah, the next day they spend the night it's like a little after father the book
But it's it's its own story in itself so you're taking your own advice on life less late and getting these other stories out there
Um
So check that check to get the book for that stuff as well
You say your life goes on the next week. I was back at D company 7 special forces group at Fort Bragg
That's it back to back to normal life
you end up
You end up
Getting involved in the sport of orientering which is like math and compass while you're running
Yeah, basically the next year you spend time doing this orientering so like as the as part of the team of 7 special forces group
Um
You say by December of 1971 our team had represented special forces in several orientering meats
I finished 15th in the US military championship 7th in the US championship 45th in the Canadian championship
So you go through that and then
You say when I heard in December 1971 that the army was offering early outs that really appealed to me
I felt ready to do my own thing and not to be told what to do all the time
I took advantage of the opportunity separating January 5th
Start it back at junior college January 7th back home
So how long was your total service? Well, I was active three years
And I was in reserve for four I stayed in okay so we you are we you are actually doing reserve duty on the weekends and whatnot
I was making money to go to college
So you go to school what's your studying school? Business
Aged their Martin independent study of business and then you graduate and you're not you know it's 1974
You're having a little trouble finding a job, but oh yeah
But uh, at one of the sauntay raiders
reunions you you
Get connected with Ross Peroff. Yes, he he he had the reunion
1974 I guess well all the POW debbies and the raiders at San Francisco and
And we had an afternoon he brought all the raiders in the POWs together and he said you know if there's any
thing I've never knew for any of you let me know
And as a result of that I thought you know
A medical and I don't have a job, but I need help, you know, so I wrote a letter to Ross Peroff and
I got a response back that they flew me down for a new interview and
I was hired work read yes
And
He kept his word
That's pretty amazing and then how long did you do how long to work for a EDS? I work for EDS for about three years and then you end up with another job
And what was the next job you got? I went the from there to selling computer furniture and
We're for a company called right line. I work for them for about five years and then I was hired away from that company by
Greg Kales who was my old boss at that time there and
selling you'd add a micro graphics and
He sold the business and I decided to start my own so
I went into my own business of
Document imaging and document imaging
Where we scan documents and store
Digitism and is that still running today? Yes, what's it called Delta systems Delta systems?
That's a new Delta for just happens to mean
name in the company or in Kansas City and
Wait and you're doing that in the late 80s you were doing that
Hmm, I jumped started because that's everything is digital now. Yeah, and amazing how much is still being printed out today?
Crazy
And that's still running right now Delta systems. How big is the company?
Well, there's only about five of us so we're small company, but we we do a lot of work
We're in probably now maybe 1520 30 states and
And we have resellers this other product and then we do a lot in the healthcare
Medical but you name an end-ass ringer probably have a system installed in it so
What is government or
We just you're out there anybody's got favorite money get rid of it we can help
And you you know you mentioned earlier your wife Marsha
When did you meet her I'm in and what was that what was the arc the story arc there?
We were at the time I was a member of the beta processing management association in Kansas City
and we I was on the border directors for that and we were
Down at a bar after a board meeting one night and
Marsha and her girlfriend walked in the place was packed and
Couple of the guys that were on the board happened to get up and leave just as they walked in so we had to open seats
And we said come sit down here with us and they did and
So I met Marsha that was in September
Let's see that would have been
And so we end up getting married and
She had a little boy Aaron who is down in Texas and my daughter which you met here and honey and
So we we got married in
October
20th of
1984 and
I started the business 1989
There was a
What was there some story about scuba diving in here? Do you guys get married under water or something or engaged under water?
What was the story? We were in Kansas
I had a we were in Hawaii and place called witches brew which is in front of Namabay
on the island of Oahu and
I have a friend over there that was a dental hygienic and she had some that red dental floss
So I wrapped the ring and that
I did it on it put it in a little murmur and had a 35 millimeter
Tarratases put that down on my web suit
We don't swim out the the place called witches brewed and we went down about 30 feet under and I stopped her and I said
I pulled out on a dangled it
Of course everything three times bigger one
She thought she was in a little rarer
Or said
Melty when we got on the surface
She went from 1.5 kms to 0.5
Exactly
But then you had a so you had a son
Aaron and then your daughter
She ended up joining the army. Yes, she was a so you got third generation army
That's true and she actually shipped off to Afghanistan at one point correct right she was a chemical officer
And how hard was that for you?
have this tough
I know it's tough on her and it's tough on me, you know, I just you know
It's it's one thing you know when you when you go but it's when your daughter goes
You got a lot of other thoughts going through the mind and now she's very strong woman
She was with a college at Warrensburg and she was the first ROTC
Famiel come the Italian commander
She was the first female to go to jump school from there and the first one to go to Afghanistan
And now she's a deputy sheriff on johnson canny Kansas and
She's a loves of job. Must be the daughter of a son, too, Raider
Got a daughter of slay, I guess you know
Other always worried about her but I tried not to show my concerns
But it was when your daughter's in her's way you got to be a little
Crazy I worry when my daughter's one of my daughters goes to the grocery store right where I came to the
Magister go to Afghanistan, God bless you and you know that's the the last life lesson that you have in the book
You say life lesson nine sacrificial living
That scene as we arrived at Pope Air Force Base back in November 1970 really made an impression on me
It's not only the soldiers but also their wives who are heroes these families are the type of people our world needs
People who know this life is not just about their own convenience
I am thankful for what these families and also
Those of first responders in civilian life do for our country and for freedom around the world
That's your
That's sort of your your final life lesson there and like I said the stories in the book
We only covered a fraction of the book today, but it's packed full of more information the
just it's
Very powerful
And
One thing I wanted to cover which we we haven't really touched on yet which is the impact of the raid
Right because clearly go on this operation the operation is to rescue
Peotab use and as we've covered there was no POWs there and it'd be easy to think well then that must be a failed mission
But
That couldn't be further from the truth the there was a huge impact for
The POWs and and part of the section of the book where you have other people stories
You have a bunch of commentary from
Some of the people at were POWs and Vietnam and we've had some of these heroes on this podcast incredible human beings
You have some I'm gonna just read some of these highlights
US Air Force first lieutenant J H spike Nazmith POW from 1966 to 1973 says I was in a Hanoi
Six and a half years
After the raid the guards were clearly shaken by what they heard
They were digging holes like mad it was a real show to watch at dawn the NVA were still running around
You've heard of a Chinese fire drill. They're digging fox holes right outside our cell
They've got machine guns set up all over the prison yard. They're digging in fox holes real deep. I can't believe all the freaking
Foxholes first time I'd seen the little bastard to work up a sweat
US Air Force first lieutenant Joe Kreka POW
1966 to 1973 on the night of November 21st
1970 hours a POW and camp faith a camp just about 10 miles south of sauntay and about the same distance west
of Hanoi as sauntay
It didn't come out until a few days later what had happened within 48 hours
We were all packed up placed on the six by six trucks and ferried into Hanoi
So this is an impact direct impact of the raid they started consolidating these prisoners
Which is a massive morale boost he says whereas before we had been held in much smaller groups one two three four
Or even eight or ten they were now 50 of us all together in a room of about 35 feet by 70 feet new faces
new stories to tell and hear and putting faces of fellow Americans we only knew by main
Language classes were taught in German because they they organized like a
Educational system once they were together they had a just just they started being more productive
Language classes were taught in German Spanish and even Russian math classes were divided into three levels appropriately
xy and z
We also had courses in history sociology politics religion wine selection
Yes, we had a wine tasting class meat cutting and lumber selection
And I taught of a course in physics automotive theory and practices well as one on classical music themes and composers
He said we were still being held captive but since the raid on song tape prison camp by the in comparable
Sontay Raiders life was so much better hats off to all the Raiders and those who supported the raid
Air force navy Marines and all those at their support bases on land at sea bravo
Another one captain a US Air Force captain Leon Lee Ellis
Sontay POW camp from 1967 to 1973 the night of November 20th and 21st at camp faith
We POWs were awakened in the middle of night hearing explosions aircraft
Sams launching and several minutes of chaos we could not have guessed that our old camp at Sontay
Just a few miles up the road was entertaining guests uninvited guests for sure
The next morning we saw fear in the eyes of the guards and turn keys and within 48 hours
We were loaded up and move back to Hanoi for the first time ever we were in large groups
But we were not rescued by the raid in many ways our sanity and teamwork were saved by that event
We will always be indebted to the Raiders for what they did for us
US Navy Lieutenant Junior Grade Porter Halle Burton POW 1965 to 1973 at camp faith on November 21st
We heard gunfire and jet noise from somewhere close by but had no idea what was happening
The elation we felt knowing that our government had tried to rescue us was the most powerful
More morale booster imaginable
We were especially thankful to the guys of the Sontay Raiders who had volunteered for this mission and risked their lives to try and rescue us
Another one US Navy Commander Paul Galante
Sontay POW camp
He said the Sontay raid itself was the most memorable moment of my captivity
We knew Uncle Sam wouldn't forget about us the Sontay raid proof that
US Air Force first Lieutenant Mike Burns POW 1968 to 1973
We were all jubilant because after so many years of waiting something finally happened
Fighter pilots like to make things happen and are probably the worst probably worse than most people are doing nothing
US Air Force Major DW Wayne Wadell
POW 1967 in 1973 you guys made the biggest positive change in our so-jurn in North Vietnam and we can never
Repay you for taking that risk thanks
And I'll read one more this is US Air Force
First Lieutenant Larry lucky shells chestly
Sontay POW camp
1966 to 1973 I was captured in 1966 and spent the next 2,495 days just short of 7 years as a POW
I was at Sontay
We had prayed for months that God would move us to a better camp he did on July 14th
I guess a person needs to be careful what he prays for he might get it
We loaded in the trucks and went to a better camp which fulfilled our prayers
Then the raid came we were blessed once more when we were moved to a better camp at Hanoi where we had big
rooms about 48 of us in the room we could now teach each other things such as languages,
choir, movie, we told movies and we had programs on each Sunday and also for Christmas
Easter 4th of July Marine Day etc
When we got packages and that was not very often those who got packages shared them with those
That received nothing I never received any packages or letters for four years yes for four years my wife and family did not know
If I was alive or dead I am eternally grateful to the heroic things that the men of the Sontay raid did for our country
And those incarcerated in Vietnam
I remember that came the fourth era I lied come in
Their model was returned with order
Yeah, it's outstanding
Yeah, and as I said I was just hitting the highlights I didn't even cover all these POWs the the impact that you all had
Conducting this operation which by the way I've been mentioned the operation name was ivory coast that was the name of the operation
But you know the impact that you all had was just incredible and
Amazing to be able to sit here and and talk to you some someone from a raid that I've studied and read about for many many years
And just an incredible
Opportunity to be able to sit here and talk to you and and hear these stories
From you for everybody out there
The book is just incredible piece of history and it's it's available on Kindle if you're one of these digital people there's an audio book
Traditional print
You know whether you want soft cover hard cover, but just an incredible book go out and get it we just covered a fraction of the stories today
It's an amazing amazing piece of history. Thank you
Probably a good place to wrap it up echo Charles. Do you have any questions?
Nothing else than okay. Thank you. Wow. That's that's a rare occasion
What was gonna ask about the wine tasting but that was a year thing right no that way after ask a Captain Charlie Plummer
Yeah, maybe will reader bill reader about that one do we know what we learn in a wine tasting class
Do anyone know that probably different ways that wine are made to taste different ways and
No, I keep those people when you talk to the POWs we've talked to POWs the
The
The amount of focus that they have on food is incredible they go through everything that they've ever eaten in their whole lives
Literally they have they'll talk about menu. They'll prepare a Christmas Eve dinner menu for months
Right and just think about what they're gonna eat
I mean because those guys were getting fed
You know these little balls of rice with piece chips that wouldn't it?
Yeah, they'd be happy if there was a bug in there because they'd get a little extra protein. Oh, good
Yeah, that's amazing. I know I do to have those guys back on the podcast
It'll be it'll be awesome to be able to ask them you know what they remember about about this and how it impacted them
But amazing story Terry you got any final thoughts you want to share no
I
You know it was a team effort from the guys that supporting us
I mean when you think about how many people were involved in the Sunday raid
56 guys were on the ground but we had I'm say
56 hundred helping us guys that were on the ships, you know, we had
The aircraft came from three different
Airpoint
carriers and I think it was six or seven
bases and
It was a joint effort. I mean there are so many people involved in it
But what's interesting is
Nobody knew what was going on. They're all compartmentalized. They were all compartmentalized
Colonel
Sidnor or Colonel
Simon's and
Cheryl Manor had a letter from the
Joint Chiefs of Staff that said if these guys need anything
Give it to them no questions ask and that's what they had carried to every base they went to
And there was no questions they never was turned down on anything they requested and
You know, so that's how high in that
Heshalon and wit but also how many people lower in the Heshalon and the impact and helped with the
Sunday raid and some of them probably didn't even know they were doing it because of the secrecy
You barely knew you were doing it until if you were to go for it
Yeah, that's the part you know an hour before we took off is when we knew where we were going
So
Let's security was for our own benefit
Absolutely, so you know, I'm never questioned why they kept out of secret
I was just glad they did you know, so
Well, I'm glad we can hear about the secret now and thank you for joining us out here
My pleasure has been a real honor to be in all the veterans out there. Thank you for your service to the
Great Country. I know we got some ruffy roads out there, but we also have been through them
Before we will survive we just have to pick up our bootstraps and chug on
Well, you you all have given us lessons learned and then
Thank you for your for your service and for your contribution to America and for your contribution to
Special forces and really to special operations as a whole as I said
You and your your brothers and arms that conducted this this operation
You made a huge impact
Not only like I said to the POWs, but you made a huge impact to the morale of a country and you made a huge impact to
Special operations and arched victory in history
So
Thank you for coming on and thank you for everything that you and your fellow son
T-Raters have done
We will not forget you thank you sir. Thank you
And with that
Terry Buckler has left the building
Pretty awesome to be able to sit down and talk to him echo
Yeah, how do you feel about it?
It's interesting how do you feel about that whole
scenario
Not knowing where you're going to execute
This massive mission and you don't know where you're going until an hour before you go yeah
Yeah, obviously kind of there's a lot to think about it
To start with where it's one of those things where it's almost like you're my I would imagine anyway that you're mine just kind of goes to okay
I'm here to essentially do a mission and so it kind of blocks that of course you can be wondering I would imagine I don't know
But of course you're imagining what you're gonna do but
Either way, it's like it forces your mind to just be prepared for kind of anything
But it's still very off-plitting
To know this is what I thought about even more so though than that is so you know how he started the his business afterwards
Right and it's like oh it just ties in like documents. It's like oh, right you didn't
Start like some tactical shooting course just you know something like but it just goes to show where like
Even tilt wasn't he like a reporter after all
For a full career by the way. Yeah, so it just goes to show like how a military man
Kind of like a due to man
Is like
Right you don't know like he he can be anybody and he can go and perform and do these crazy things hold the
Construction guy or maybe like some some real hard job and he's like oh no, he's an accountant
Okay, all right Eddie it just paints that picture more. Yeah, you know and there's something to be said for
That's the way veterans have done it for a long time. I mean the world war two veterans came home and they
Went and got jobs doing things, you know, they went back to school. They did the GI bill
So like you don't have to you know not everyone's gonna come home and start a tactical shooting company
You know like that's not
That's not the normal thing what makes it seem normal is you know when someone owns a tactical shooting company that they were a veteran
So you're like oh well everyone that's a veteran must start a tactical shooting company. Yeah, it's not necessarily true
So feels that's a feels that way feels like it feels that way because there's no one that went to college and studied
You know
Studied economics and then started a tactical shooting company, right?
Good sir, so you don't you don't have that data in your head
So you think well, oh this guy's got a tactical shooting company. He was a veteran another guy has a tactical shooting company
He's a veteran another guy so all veterans must start tactical shooting companies. No a lot of veterans go and
Start well data processing companies and
I work with I mean I work with a lot of companies where I work with veterans all the time that that
You know we're talking about their business. We're talking about what they do and then occasionally
Oh yeah, well, I was near army or oh I was in the Marine Corps and they have a totally separate job and they have a different career
And that's very normal. It's not abnormal
Yeah, it's actually more normal. It's more normal to do that than it is to start a tactical shooting company
Very it's more normal. Yeah, and even and this more to
I don't mean to put to find a viewpoint on it, but of course tactical shooting company, okay?
But like any kind of adventurous and this is brought just my experience like the bias I came from my experience with meeting all these guys
We're gonna make a think doing all these
Adventurous things, you know, where it's like you go through these crazy missions or all these crazy military experiences
You come home and boom
Let's switch missions into some other quote-unquote
Adventurous
scenario, you know and a lot of people a lot of us or not us, but a lot of people do that
Yeah, you see that you know, I think it's your awareness bias
Yeah, because when you become aware of something that sounds like that you've got what's that person's background?
Oh, they were a veteran that makes sense. Yeah, you don't look at an accountant and say whoa
I wonder what military branch they were when they probably were that were there
There's a decent chance that they were in the military
There's all kinds of veterans out there working. I mean I meet veterans all the time when I go and work with companies companies just so you know
Companies have
Veteran programs inside their company. So I'll work with a financial company and inside their financial company
They have like a veterans group and they'll say hey can we spend 15 minutes doing Q&A with you?
And I go oh with who and they go oh we have a veterans group. We have you know of our
2000 employees we have
274 veterans and we
We sell
Insurance or we
Manufacturer widgets or whatever, but they have a bunch of veterans at work there and that's every I mean when I work with big tech companies
They have veterans when I work with financial companies they have a construction company
Everyone's got veterans
It's just that it stands out in your head when someone owns a shooting company because you think it's cool
So it's normal for a veteran to come home and do what they're gonna do
That's that's the way the world works
But and this is a good example. It's the interesting thing about his career was just
It's it's almost like this guy was in the NFL for
One season and he didn't play any games except the Super Bowl
Right like that's the kind of incredible and then he and then that was it he retired after the Super Bowl one game
And went out there one the championship and
And and then carried on with the rest of his life did three years
Three years like and doing that such a such a high profile mission probably one of the most well
The most high profile mission for special operations at that time
It's amazing
It's crazy so
Good stuff awesome to be able to talk with him and this is a hugely influential mission for special operations
We appreciate you support us by the way out there
If you want to support us and you want to support yourself get go to jockelfield.com get some of these beverages by the way
Freaking I did not get a lot of sleep last night got she got stuck in my
in my roller coaster of brain thought which is it which is not I can't stand it you know
I can't stand it and I the here's what was a bummer was I had bad sleep the night before and I was like
Oh, I had a good workout. So I thought I'm gonna be asleep like a baby and I'm going to bed early
Like you know 930. I'm getting ready to go to sleep
I'm thinking all this is gonna be great. I'm gonna feel great. I went to bed, but you know 10 10
I'm laying in bed in the darkness and I've got the eyes are shifting back and forth
You know count the walls and thinking about this and thinking about that and thinking about this and thinking about that and thinking about this
So that happened until one o'clock in the morning
Which so when that happens then okay, so this because that happens that's a real thing where but is it the kind of where you think about one or two things over and over and over
I can describe this
This is the way it feels
have you ever been to
Disney land no okay
There's a ride there. It's called space mountain and in space mountain
You're on a roller coaster, but you can't see very much in front of you. It's in the dark basically
So you're suddenly you're going in one direction and you'd go in a different direction and go in a different direction
So that's what my mind is like I'm on
I'm on a roller coaster it at dark, but I just keep seeing like a new idea comes up then another new idea
I have another new idea then another new idea and it just doesn't stop
And maybe sometimes it does circle back to the original idea which just starts the whole process again
but I am
Getting I probably slept two and a half hours last night which which sucks. I wanted to sleep more, but
Here I am here I am so and I drank this I normally don't have two goes in one podcast
But I did to best so
You may need some clean energy in your life
You don't need to have necessarily some jittery energy you don't need to have you need to have sugar intake
You need to give yourself type two diabetes
You can just get yourself a go get yourself a go
Jock off you'll calm get yourself some more come on to go home and have more because I have any yet because I have
Yeah, so
We're feeling that yeah, and especially I said this before it's but if if you're lifting wait
Or or each I did lift this morning by the way bad workout not a great workout like I mean
I was borderline hey
Am I gonna get the benefit from this workout right now?
Yeah, yeah, so how many days of like
Cheaty sleep do you have to go through to actually get a better because you can go one day junk sleep and still get a sick workout
Yeah, I don't know I don't know but I will get good sleep tonight. That's the nice thing
Rough for me two days if I go the second day bad sleep. Sorry workouts workout
It's not even doing yeah, just workout it depends on what what I kind of if I if I
Go into it and get kind of like a little bit of anger going then I'm pissed then I might get Jackson more still
But I did a week workout, but do you are any of your work because this is different gonna work out
But are any of your workouts like based on
For lack of a term like a body building scenario. Okay, so yeah, put it this way then and tell me if this applies to you your workouts for you
So if I do I don't know
Chest one day where we are and then I don't feel the pump and I'm tired
That is like there's something wrong with me physically
Whether I didn't get enough sleep, but I didn't eat enough and not hydrate or whatever
But if you don't get the pump that's a big indicator and then there's other stuff where it's like you just feel weak
And just not into it mentally all the stuff there's other other factors
But do you have any work out where it's like you're you feel the physical like pump versus if you don't
I'd say it kind of feel that on a lot of workouts
You know yeah like dips you feel dips you feel good put but muscle ups too like when you get done with muscle ups
You feel like kind of jacked all the way around
Yeah, so you know when chasing gardeners at the other day that he takes a one
Discipline go pill in the morning that's he I haven't tried it yet, but that seems like a good move
Just to get a little a little kicker
Yeah, I haven't tried it yet. I have them before I'm like going to speak and I don't want to have a bladder filled with liquid
Distracting you but you can feel those things feel those things for real
So there you go you want some milk you want some joint warfare you want some krill oil go to jacophil.com
You can get that you can get the drinks at walla by the way worth moving to some other convenience stores right now
Also some other
Some other big news coming on the front yeah for jacophil
Vitamin shopping get it there as well. So check it out jacophil.com
What else also origin you say yeah
American manufactured goods durable goods as a word. I didn't know what that meant by the way
durable goods yes, like clothes work clothes pants shoes that kind of stuff
The new hunting line thing when is that going down because look do I hunt you know, let's be be able
Probably not I think it's debate about it. Well, do
Either way
It can be used for other stuff. I will have something line
This summer late summer to be prepared for the hunting season in
September
That's hunting so well, there's there's other hunting but the hunting season we're aiming for is that September hunting season
So yeah, we're coming is there different hunting seasons for different places different places different animals different weapons
Okay, so there's a whole bunch of things and it can go
You know in yes different different animals different weapons different seasons
You've got a bunch of stuff to contend with and we'll be making stuff for all of it
very cool venture working with some great people
Work with camhains, which is awesome. I mean, he's just a machine so it's it's that guy is
Possessed and obsessed with hunting and so it's great to have him giving guidance on
making the gear exactly
As it should be made no compromise hey has to be able to perform if you're gonna keep up with camhains
In the woods like that clothing has to keep up with camhains that clothing is thinking to itself
All right, I'm gonna be put through the ringer
So that's what we're talking about. It's like the highest possible standard
Yeah, and like as it applies to actual hunting because let's face it when I'm looking at that thing
I'm pretty much only concerned about how it's gonna look on me. Really this is
Well when I'm doing whatever I'm being doing with it, but
Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, I mean I recently connected with him on my line too. So there you go
Got a new friend. Yep. Oh, yeah, yeah
So origin USA dot com if you want to check some of that stuff out. Yeah, also did you stuff. Oh, yeah, by the way, of course
That's a huge deal main and North Carolina where we're making it it's unbelievable
Bring it back
Also there you go. Jocca is a store jocco store dot com so you can get your just political freedom shirts and hats and merch
Good stuff. This quality. It's not just it's not just like
My daughter always says it's stuff. You know, it's weird how kids nowadays. Well
Let's face it my kids and their friends. I'm sure it's you know most kids were their terminology is like
You know merch is like obviously we know what that means. It's short from merchant dice
Which is merchandise is a specific thing. So we know the translation. They don't even know
They're just like merch. That's the official word. You know my daughters speak in a kind of their own language
With the and I went and saw one of my daughters up at my middle daughter up at college and got to listen to her
Her friends and they have their own words their own language
And it's pretty funny to listen to oh yeah sus
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, what is sus suspect yeah, which is suspicious like right? So we know that we know sus like on that look kind of sus
So I be like okay, obviously
That girl meets us
Fish is also like oh, that's a suspect situation
But some things could be sauce but suspect is a slang term derived from suspicious
All right because suspect as a word is a person no, but you could also say oh that that chair is suspect whether it's going to
You and say suspicious you say that thing is
Suspect oh you'd say suspicious you could say that you could say that I'm pretty sure suspect is a noun
Well, I guess we'll have to go to it's not the objective. I know you're an English major, but we want to revisit that
Here's my hypothesis
Suspicious is the adjective suspect is the noun sus is like
Could go both ways if a Malcolm of the whole deal all right, we're whole English literature
Understanding is sus at this time
Either way jockels door.com is where you can get all this merch
But it's more than just merch. It's like good it's quality. It's like well it's stuff you're supposed to actually wear and it's it's also
You know part you know spread of the game. It's part of like you know
If you're in the game it's part of the culture yeah, it's part of the game part of being in the game
I remember when we first kind of had the podcast that would say like how'd you get into the game
Still see that people I've been saying well maybe I need to bring it back
When I mean how how do you get in the game? They've all heard you on Rogan you know
I heard you on Tim Ferriss or whatever you know how'd you get in the game my uncle told me
Oh whatever it's real so there you go if you want to get in the game
Jockels door.com and represent true
Also subscribe if you haven't already leave a review
And you can subscribe to a bunch that a bunch but other podcasts as well that we're doing if we don't know
Which ones?
I'm a ravling with Darrell Cooper we're getting kind of crazy sometimes on those yeah
Kind of crazy with DC that's how you got to roll DC's got a long trajectory of thought
I understand who I try and explain that to people. Yeah DC's got a long trajectory of thought
He's he's gonna make its case over
Extended period of time
So if you if you hear him say something and when I say say something when you hear Darrell Cooper say something for three hours
He's only represented he that's like the warm up for him
Great you gotta keep listening so keep listening to that and then you'll see that there's probably a more balanced overall picture
But sometimes he seems a little bit you know you gotta take gotta get a listen to DC
You gotta listen to the man so check out check out that one joc on ravling
Grounded bonkass warrior kid bonkass. We got the joc on the ground appreciate your support there joc on the ground.com if you want to support free them a speech
You got it you got a kind of pay attention that right now we know we got Elon Musk
You just bought a chunk of Twitter
And hopefully that's a positive sign in the world. Yeah, maybe bought it to maybe influence more freedom of speech
Hey, you know, I mean that's the concept right because
That's what kind of he's about
That and putting rockets into space and making electric electrical cars true made America
So there you go that's uh joc on the run.com if you want to help us out there check out the YouTube channel check out psychological war for check out flip side canvas to coat a mile
The code of mire we got to get he just went to Ukraine by the way
Whatever is the code of mire he's a metal vana recipient has talking to us today
He's like I just got back up like oh, how is Ukraine he was in key right dude? I mean
Just getting after it so if you want to help
Support Dakota mire and all of his madness go to flipside canvas.com buy something cool to hang on your wall
That's where you should do in my opinion got a bunch of books check out the books who will go into
Sante
That's what we covered today. We covered a fraction of it today Terry Butler check that out. I written a bunch of books too if you want to get some more
of the conceptual
Ideals that I speak of you can check out any of the books that I wrote you can check out we have a leadership
Consultancy called echelon furnished on front dot com if you want to come
Check some of that out
We have an online academy
For human beings that have to interact with other human beings go to extreme ownership dot com
You've got a question for me coming ask me you can ask me on a zoom call. I'm there
You can just ask me your question about your boss about your employee about your girlfriend about your boyfriend about your kid about your jitsu
tournament
What everyone ask me
We want to hear your questions go to extreme ownership dot com take we got a bunch of courses to take about
How to utilize the dichotomy of leadership about how to utilize cover move
Lots of important things extreme ownership dot com if you want to help service members
Active and retired you want to help out their families gold star families check out mark
Lees mom mom and Lee she's got a charity organization. It's a wonderful thing that helps out in incredible ways
If you want to donate or you want to get involved go to america's mighty or yours dot org you can also check out
Heroes and horses dot com make a think who I think you mentioned a few minutes ago
Yeah, because you're like what was Mike a think going to do when he gets done with his time in the seal teams
He's probably gonna do something bad ass. So heroes and horses dot com check that out as far as echo and I go with both on
Who are on Twitter on the gram or on Facebook where we're we're possibly
Gonna pull you into the algorithm but we don't want you to get pulled into the algorithm
We want you to cut away from the algorithm that goes at equitrolls. I am at jockelwillink you can also check out
Terry Buckler. He's got a Facebook page if you want to check out his Facebook page see what he's up to
Facebook at Terry Buckler and
Thank you once again to Terry Buckler for coming on for sharing his experiences and thanks to Terry and the rest of the
Sontay Raiders
The mighty special forces green braze and the other support personnel the pilots the air crew that took the risks to attempt to rescue our fellow service men
And thanks all the military personnel out there right now who are willing to take risk to protect and secure freedom around the world and thanks
For the work done by our police and law enforcement
Firefighters paramedics EMTs dispatchers correctional officers board of patrol secret service and all first responders who sacrifice
To protect and secure us and our way of life here at home and to everyone else out there
Remember some of the key lessons from Terry Buckler today
Add humor to your life
Especially in tough situations be excellent in everything you do always train and improve
Be patient but no end to be aggressive don't be a complainer don't be indispensable be thankful for those who sacrifice for our freedom and
Be prepared for death
Make sure the day that you meet your maker isn't the first time you've been introduced
Because if you're prepared for death you are free to live life fearlessly and that
Is a good plan
So go out there and get after it
And until next time Zekko and Joko out